Nietzsche found the New Testament "paltry" compared to a law code from this country. A book from this
country divides men into hares, bulls, and horses, and women into mares, elephants, and deer. Another text
from this country contains a parable in which three groups each hear different words in "The Voice of the
Thunder." Four "great proclamations," including "Thou art that," are found in 108 books of (*) commentary
from this country. Many of its religious texts end with the repetition of the word for "peace," shantih, and describe
the relationship between atman and brahman. For 10 points, name this home country of the Law of Manu,
Upanishads, and Vedas.
ANSWER: India [or Bharat] <CS; Religion and Mythology>
2. A kiss in this novel described as "a manure pile after rain" precedes the revelation one character was born
after a schoolteacher raped her mother. A character who discusses a love for sugar-tits in this novel learns to
shoot in the Everglades and is married to Johnny Walker (*), but abandons him for the mayor of Eatonville, who
is bitten by a rabid dog during a hurricane. The protagonist of this novel narrates to Pheoby Watson her three
marriages to Logan Killicks, Jody Starks, and Tea Cake. For ten points, name this novel by Zora Neale Hurston
describing Janie Crawford’s search for the horizon.
ANSWER: Their Eyes Were Watching God <TDG; American Literature>
3. Kathleen Lonsdale used x-ray diffraction to prove the 2D structure of this molecule. This compound is
reacted with propylene during the cumene process. Despite structural similarities, this compound cannot be
converted into pyridine. (*) Substituents are added to this compound using a ferric chloride catalyst in the
Friedel-Crafts alkylation. Six delocalized pi electrons are contained within this molecule, which obeys Huckel’s
rule. For ten points, name this aromatic compound consisting of six carbon atoms in a ring.
ANSWER: benzene <KK; Chemistry>
4. A politician from this country described himself as "an identitarian fighting rootless financial elites" who
believes in traditional marriage and "doesn't want to hear about all the other disgusting alternatives."
Another politician from this country is wont to bring up the possibly cannibalistic murder of a girl named
Pamela (*) to defend his anti-immigration stance. This country is home to the rightist party Lega. This country’s
deputy minister sued its first black minister Cecile Kyenge for defamation and stated that "Macron shouldn't lecture
others.” For 10 points, name this country home to Matteo Salvini.
ANSWER: Italy (first line refers to Lorenzo Fontana) <CS; Current Events>
5. One artist from this movement depicted a woman watching over a curtain-covered bed in The Cradle.
Another artist from this movement named Marie was discouraged by her husband Felix Bracquemond,
whose use of Oriental art as packing material inspired its trend of Japonism. One artist from this movement
often painted his wife Camille Doncieux, and another member of it painted a boy poking his feet in a (*) bowl
of water in The Child's Bath. One member of this movement was inspired by his Giverny garden to produce many
paintings of footbridges and water lilies. For 10 points, name this art movement of Mary Cassatt and Claude Monet.
ANSWER: Impressionism (first two painters are Berthe Morisot and Marie Bracquemond) <CS + WJ; Fine Arts
Visual>
6. In one scene in this work, passersby are mesmerized by an airplane that skywrites the word “toffee.” While
in the park with Rezia, a man in this novel mistakes a character in love with Daisy for his dead friend Evans.
The “most exquisite moment” of the life of this novel’s title character is when she exchanges a (*) kiss with
Sally Seton at Bourton in this work where Peter Walsh attends a party hosted by Richard’s wife after war veteran
Septimus Smith jumps out a window. For ten points, name this novel following one day of the title woman’s life, by
Virginia Woolf.
ANSWER: Mrs. Dalloway <CM; British Literature>
7. If one of these particles does not contribute to a quantum number, then it becomes a virtual pair known as
its “sea” type. These particles are described by SU(3) symmetry in the Eightfold Way theory. Sau Lan Wu
helped discover the J/psi particle, which is made up of two of these objects. These particles are described by
(*) color charge in quantum chromodynamics. In 1995, Melissa Franklin’s team at Fermilab discovered the “top”
type of these particles. For ten points, name these flavored elementary particles that make up protons and neutrons.
ANSWER: quarks <KK; Physics>
8. In an opera from this country, the protagonist, who puts rat poison in her father-in-law's mushrooms, falls
in while pushing a rival woman into a freezing river. In another opera from this country, Triquet recites
French couplets about the female lead, who tries twice to write what she feels in the "letter scene." A
composer from this country created an opera in which Truffaldino knocks over a (*) witch, after which he uses
a magic ribbon to seduce a giant Cook so he and the Prince can find the fruit the latter has fallen in love with. For 10
points, name this home country of the composer of The Love for Three Oranges, Sergei Prokofiev.
ANSWER: Russia [accept USSR] (the unnamed operas are Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District and Eugene
Onegin) <CS; Fine Arts Other>
9. This location was the site of a rite in which the newly crowned ruler would imitate the god Min and "sow
their seeds" there. This location was ruled over by members of the Elephantine Triad like Satis and a "Divine
Potter," who created babies here before placing them in their mother's womb. Frogs were the attendants (*)
of a pot-bellied androgynous god named Hapi responsible for an annual event here. A fight in the form of hippos
and a race of stone boats are "Contendings" that take place within this location between an uncle and his nephew.
Those who wished for safe travel along this location asked for the protection of Sobek. For 10 points, name this
river, whose floods nourished Egypt.
ANSWER: Nile River <CS; Religion and Mythology>
10. The size of these landforms is limited by erosion by temperate glaciers according to the glacial buzzsaw
hypothesis. The Madrean Sky Islands are defined by these features, which cause foehn winds. Delamination
may assist in the formation of these landforms. Rifting creates the fault-block type of these features, which
also come in fold types. Flag trees usually appear on these landforms near the (*) tree line. The process that
forms them occurs in namesake "belts." The leeward side of these features create rain shadows. For 10 points, name
these tall landforms mainly created through orogeny, which are often snow-capped.
ANSWER: Mountains <CS; Other Science>
11. An artifact from this modern country is a hollow wooden box with mosaics of "War" and "Peace," which
was first identified as a standard. Another artifact from this modern country, the first anatomically accurate
head, is the Mask of Warka. Sites in this country were studied by William Loftus and (*) Leonard Woolley. It
is home to the tomb of Queen Puabi, who was identified with cylinder seals. Nanna was the dedicatee of a step
pyramid now in this country. Its Library of Ashurbanipal contained many cuneiform tablets. For 10 points, the Great
Ziggurat of Ur and the city of Uruk are in what modern-day country, with archaeological museums in Basra and
Baghdad?
ANSWER: Iraq <CS; Philosophy and Social Science>
12. This polity was ruled by two elected Suffets and a council of aristocrats called the drm [a-di-rim]. The
navy of this empire employed Liburnian vessels such as the Marsala Ship, the earliest warship ever
recovered, and larger ramming vessels called quinqueremes. An explorer from this empire founded
settlements on the west coast of (*) Africa and was named Hanno the Navigator. Its politics were dominated by
the Barcid family, who established a colony in modern-day Spain. Cato the Elder declared that this empire “must be
destroyed” at the ends of his speeches. For 10 points, name this North African empire that spoke Punic and often
feuded with Rome.
ANSWER: Carthage <KK; Ancient and British History>
13. This person raised taxes on starch and trucks in response to European tariffs during the Chicken War.
This politician attempted to promote an associate justice of the Supreme Court to chief justice, but that
nomination of Abe Fortas was filibustered (*) by the Senate. In one campaign, this politician used the slogan “In
your guts, you know he’s nuts’’ against an opponent, and released an ad depicting a young girl picking daisies
before a nuclear bomb explodes. Head Start and Medicare were programs of this president’s Great Society. For 10
points, name this politician who became president upon the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
ANSWER: Lyndon Baines Johnson <KK; American History>
14. A character in this play delights in the idea of having another character wander around a garden after
years in a one-room flat. In this play, a man who is possessed by the “Demon of Experiment” is separated
from a woman whose name is revealed to be Amalia. Hats and mantles are hung on clothes pegs to lure out
the prostitute Madame Pace [pa-chay] after the title (*) people interrupt a rehearsal of Mixing It Up. It ends with
the Boy shooting himself with a revolver and the Child drowning in a fountain. For ten points, name this play in
which the title group look for a writer for their story, by Luigi Pirandello.
ANSWER: Six Characters in Search of an Author <CM; European Literature>
15. A man in this show trades security footage access for large quantities of chicken. A creole in this show
uses words like “beratna” and “sésata” to address fellow speakers. Sgt. Draper pilots the Razorback in this
show in order to save a UN official from Sadavir Errinwright. In this show, Naomi lies about shooting a
missile containing the mysterious (*) Protomolecule into the Sun. An airplane banner reading “SAVE <this
show>” flew in Santa Monica after its cancellation, prompting Amazon to acquire this show from SyFy. For ten
points, name this show about a conflict between Earth and Mars based on a series by James S.A. Corey.
ANSWER: The Expanse <KK; Trash>
16. One side in this event was neglected by the Despot in Morea due to enemy raids, and this event began with
the construction of a fortress called "throat cutter". Land forces in this event were led by the Genoese captain
Giovanni Giustiniani. A weapon used in this event could hurl a 600-pound ball over a mile and was designed
by Orban. One side in this event bypassed a large (*) chain strung across the Golden Horn by carrying their ships
overland into a harbor. Before dying in this event, Constantine XI apocryphally shouted "The city is fallen and I am
still alive!". For 10 points, name this event in which Mehmed II conquered the Byzantine capital.
ANSWER: Fall of Constantinople [accept equivalents like Siege of Constantinople] <BA + KK; European
History>
17. This poet asks “What guides autumn’s singing leaf into your golden hand?” in a collection of his lost
poems, Then Come Back. In another work, the title entity “look[s] like a world, lying in surrender.” This poet
wrote “cold stars heave up, black birds migrate” and “deserted like the wharves at dawn” in another poem.
That poem by this poet repeats the phrase (*) “In you everything sank!” This author wrote poems about chowder,
tomatoes, a tuna in the market, and artichokes in Elemental Odes. This poet wrote “Arise to birth with me, my
brother” in “The Heights of Machu Picchu.” For ten points, name this Chilean poet of Twenty Love Poems and a
Song of Despair and Canto General.
ANSWER: Pablo Neruda [accept Ricardo Eliécer Neftalí Reyes Basoalto] <CM; World Literature>
18. William Howard Taft gave passive support for an annexation during this period in a memorandum
named for him. Prussian scholars Lorenz von Stein and Rudolf von Gneist helped draft a constitution during
this period. A document from this period states that "all classes, high and low, shall be united" and
denounces "evil customs of the past". This period began during the Boshin War, in which (*) Choshu and
Satsuma rebelled against Tokugawa Yoshinobu before turning on their former allies. The Charter Oath was issued
during this period. For 10 points, name this modernizing period in Japanese history named for an emperor.
ANSWER: Meiji Period [accept Meiji Restoration] <KK; World History>
19. This country was home to the majority of the Virginalist School. A composer from this country set a
string quartet separate from a full string orchestra and a set of eight other strings to imitate the sound of an
organ in a piece based on an earlier countryman's setting of Psalm 2, also called the "Third mode melody."
Other country's motets are equivalent to this country's anthems, though the motet (*) Spem in alium was
composed in this country. In a fantasia, Ralph Vaughan Williams quoted a theme by this country's Thomas Tallis.
For 10 points, name this home of Vaughan Williams, as well as Thomas Arne, who composed "Rule Britannia!"
ANSWER: England [prompt generously on "Britain" or "United Kingdom", but do NOT accept "Scotland,"
"Ireland," "Northern Ireland," or "Wales"] <CS; Fine Arts Auditory>
20. One substance synthesised in this organelle through the action of glycosyltransferases prevents
cross-species fertilisation. Transport from this organelle is inhibited by brefeldin A, which prevents the
association of COPI. A membrane-bound structure that "matures" in this organelle, the (*) cisternae, is used
to receive vesicles and package polysaccharides. For ten points, name this organelle with cis and trans faces which
was discovered using the black reaction by a namesake Italian scientist.
ANSWER: Golgi Apparatus [accept Golgi body or Golgi complex] <KE; Biology>
PACKET 6 BONUSES
1. The study of psychology has experienced many problems in recent years, as multiple researchers have been found
to "hacked" this statistical measure in published studies. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this statistical measure used in z and t-tests. If it falls below the level of significance—usually "oh point
oh five" or "oh point oh one"—the null hypothesis can be rejected.
ANSWER: p-value [accept p-hacking; prompt on "probability value"]
[10] If you ever want to get published, your work will have a good p-value and will also have to "pass" this test in
which people in the same field look over your work to determine that it is up to publishing standards.
ANSWER: peer review
[10] This other test for statistical significance involves computing a namesake value as "quantity observed value
minus expected value close quantity squared over expected value," which, if it falls in an interval determined
according to the number of degrees of freedom, means that the null hypothesis is true.
ANSWER: Pearson's chi-squared test <CS; Science Other>
2. This inspirational video was filmed in front of a green screen and features an actor posing and yelling a phrase
repeatedly. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this phrase from the video of the same name, repeated in conjunction with the sentence "don’t let your
dreams be dreams."
ANSWER: Just do it
[10] This actor, known for filming the video "Just Do It," also plays the main character in the Transformers series.
ANSWER: Shia LaBeouf
[10] Shia LaBeouf is the subject of a humorous song about his being a cannibal, written by this singer-songwriter.
He is also known as a vocalist and guitarist for the band Tally Hall.
ANSWER: Rob Cantor <MR; Trash>
3. This leader’s phrase "Si, se puede" was the source of Barack Obama’s campaign slogan "Yes we can". For 10
points each,
[10] Name this activist who was key in negotiating a collective bargaining agreement between Latino farmworkers
and white growers in California. She was the first Latina to be inducted into the National Women’s Hall of Fame.
ANSWER: Dolores Huerta
[10] Dolores Huerta joined forces with Cesar Chavez to form this major California labor union, which feuded with
the Teamsters in the Battle of Coachella Valley.
ANSWER: United Farm Workers
[10] One of Huerta’s achievements was organizing a boycott of this fruit while workers in Delano went on strike. A
speech supporting the boycott was titled after the “Wrath of” these fruits.
ANSWER: grapes <KK; American History>
4. Emile Jaques-Dalcroze and Zoltan Kodaly's namesake methods are often used for this task. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this task for which American schools often use the Orff Approach, which combines movement, drama,
and speech with music in lessons. The Paris Conservatoire and Juilliard were made to facilitate this process.
ANSWER: Music pedagogy [accept anything about teaching music, learning about music, or music education]
[10] This famous music teacher conducted the premiere of Stravinsky's Dumbarton Oaks Concerto. She taught
Aaron Copland, Virgil Thomson, and Philip Glass, who are among her many, many other independently famous
students.
ANSWER: (Juliette) Nadia Boulanger
[10] Nadia's sister Lili Boulanger was the first to win a prestigious prize named for this city home to Giovanni
Palestrina. Otto Respighi wrote compositions named for this city's Fountains and Pines.
ANSWER: (Prix de) Rome [accept Pines of Rome or Fountains of Rome] <CS; Fine Arts Auditory>
5. One member of this group published a book consisting of the biographies of Cardinal Manning, Thomas Arnold,
General Gordon, and Florence Nightingale, titled Eminent Victorians. For ten points each:
[10] Name this collective of British intellectuals founded by Thoby Stephen. Its members also include Lytton
Strachey and Vanessa Bell, and it is named for the area of London in which they met.
ANSWER: Bloomsbury Group
[10] This novel by a member of the Bloomsbury Group follows the Wilcox, Schlegel, and Bast families, culminating
in Margaret Schlegel marrying Henry Wilcox and finally receiving the title estate.
ANSWER: Howards End
[10] This author, like several others in the Bloomsbury Group, was thought to be homosexual, a theory supported by
his novel Maurice. He also wrote Howards End.
ANSWER: E.M. Forster <CM; British Literature>
6. After their defeat, this people fled across the Omaheke Desert. For ten points each,
[10] Name this ethnic group that was subject to a genocide by Lothar von Trotha. This people was unable to wage
war after they lost their main force at the Battle of Waterberg.
ANSWER: Herero people
[10] The Herero people were from this modern-day African country, which gained independence under the SWAPO
party. Other ethnics groups from this country include the Namaqua and the Ovambo.
ANSWER: Namibia
[10] The Herero genocide was an event in the Scramble for Africa, which started after an 1884 conference in this
European capital.
ANSWER: Berlin <KK; World History>
7. Small holes in these structures called foramen allow for the passage of blood vessels and nerves. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name these structures composed primarily of hydroxyapatite. The largest one in the human body is the femur.
ANSWER: bones
[10] Any cavity in bone is given this name. The four paranasal ones are connected to the nasal cavity by ostia which
can easily become blocked by allergies or a cold.
ANSWER: sinuses
[10] This most common type of joint is also the most movable. Articular cartilage sits between two bones in one of
these joints, whose namesake membrane seals in its namesake lubricating fluid.
ANSWER: synovial joint [or diarthrosis] <CS; Biology>
8. In a novel set in Jamaica, this character obtains an obeah potion from her nurse Christophine, but it poisons her
husband instead of making him fall in love with her. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this protagonist of Wide Sargasso Sea, who is characterized as a madwoman in a work where she is
married to Edward Rochester and burns down Thornfield Hall.
ANSWER: Bertha Mason [accept Antoinette Cosway; prompt on Mason]
[10] That work is this Charlotte Bronte novel, where the title character attends Lowood, becomes a governess for
Adele Varens, and falls in love with Rochester.
ANSWER: Jane Eyre
[10] Bertha Mason is kept in this location in Jane Eyre. A book by Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar is titled The
Madwoman in this location.
ANSWER: the attic <CM; World Literature>
9. Cosimo I de' Medici commissioned this artist to begin the construction of the Uffizi palace. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painter who depicted Boccaccio, Dante, and Guido Cavalcanti in his Six Tuscan Poets. He is better
known for coining the term "Renaissance" and writing the important art history book The Lives of Artists.
ANSWER: Giorgio Vasari
[10] The Uffizi is now a gallery which contains many works by this painter, who supposedly based his Mystical
Nativity on a Savonarola sermon. Among his painting at the Uffizi are his Birth of Venus and Primavera.
ANSWER: Sandro Botticelli
[10] The Uffizi also contains Piero della Francesca's portrait of Duchess Battista Sforza, who is from this city. You
can also find a Titian painting of Venus named for this city there.
ANSWER: Urbino <CS; Fine Arts Visual>
10. Einstein first named this idea after reading its namesake's critique of Newton's "bucket argument" in "The
Science of Mechanics." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ill-defined principle. Its perhaps most famous formulation states that inertia is not well-defined in
absolute space, which doesn't exist according to its formulator, but that inertia is well-defined in reference to all the
distant stars in the universe.
ANSWER: Mach's principle [or Mach's conjecture]
[10] Ernst Mach's namesake number equals velocity over this speed, equal to about 343 meters per second.
Exceeding it creates a sonic boom.
ANSWER: speed of sound
[10] When the Mach number is less than 0.2, the speed of sound is usually kept out of calculations as the flow of a
fluid will have this property, meaning that the divergence of the flow velocity equals zero. This property is the same
as stating that the flow is isochoric.
ANSWER: incompressibility [or word forms; accept incompressible flow] <CS; Physics>
11. Katherine O’Brien O’Keefe has argued for emphasizing Grendel’s resemblance to these figures. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name these figures, such as Bodvar Bjarki, who wore no armor and worshipped bears. They underwent a ritual
called hamask, which involved drinking blood possibly laced with alcohol, to transform into animals.
ANSWER: Berserkers
[10] Berserkers still maintained standard religious observances, as attested by one in the Svarfdaela Saga delaying
single combat because of this festival. Wassailing done around this time was replaced by Christmas caroling, though
namesake goats and logs of this festival are still used in some Christmas celebrations.
ANSWER: Yuletide
[10] The Ulfhethnar were a variety of berserker who wore the pelt of this animal. Two of these animals who
accompanied Odin were named Geri and Freki, while two who chased the sun and moon were named Skoll and
Hati.
ANSWER: wolves <CS; Religion and Mythology>
12. This thinker's work was augmented by Steven Hayes to found relational frame theory. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this thinker, defended by his student Kenneth MacCorquodale against a 1959 Noam Chomsky review of
the four-term contingency model presented in his Verbal Behavior. That book discusses autoclitics alongside six
operants including tacts, audience relations, echoics, and mands.
ANSWER: Burrhus Frederic Skinner
[10] Outside of his linguistic work, Skinner was a behavioral psychologist who largely studied these animals. He
taught some of these animals to play table tennis, and wanted to use them to guide missiles.
ANSWER: pigeons
[10] Skinner mainly studied operant conditioning, which is contrasted with the classical conditioning this Russian
studied. He is best-known for his work on the "conditioned reflex" of dogs salivating when hearing a buzzer.
ANSWER: Ivan Pavlov <CS; Philosophy and Social Science>
13. This quantity is responsible for the “hump” on a reaction coordinate diagram. For ten points each:
[10] Name this value that describes the minimum amount of energy needed to start a chemical reaction. This value
can be lowered through the use of a catalyst.
ANSWER: activation energy
[10] This equation uses temperature and activation energy to determine the rate constant of a chemical reaction.
ANSWER: Arrhenius equation
[10] This other equation uses Gibbs free energy rather than activation energy to determine reaction rate. This
equation is a key component of transition state theory
ANSWER: Eyring-Polanyi equation <KK; Chemistry>
14. Along with Demosthenes, this man orchestrated the largest ever capture of Spartan soldiers at Sphacteria. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this Athenian demagogue who escalated conflict with Sparta. His death at the Battle of Amphipolis
paved the way for the Peace of Nicias.
ANSWER: Cleon
[10] Cleon was a general during this war, which saw Athens hold out behind the Long Walls until its fleet was
destroyed at Aegospotami. Much of it was fought in the Aegean Sea and on its namesake peninsula.
ANSWER: Peloponnesian War
[10] A decisive campaign in the Peloponnesian War was an attempted invasion of this island, which resulted in the
loss of over 200 Athenian triremes. It was home to the city of Syracuse and sparked the First Punic War.
ANSWER: Sicily [or Sicilia] <KK; Ancient and British History>
15. This island’s namesake railroad runs from Manhattan as far as Montauk on its eastern end. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this island that also includes the New York City boroughs of Queens and Brooklyn.
ANSWER: Long Island
[10] Long Island is now also connected to this former barrier island in Brooklyn via reclaimed land. It is home to a
boardwalk with amusement park rides, as well as an annual hot dog eating competition.
ANSWER: Coney Island
[10] This urban planner, who clashed with Jane Jacobs due to his vision of cars as the “lungs of the city,” was
responsible for the construction of the Triborough Bridge to Long Island and Shea Stadium in Queens.
ANSWER: Robert Moses <CC; Geography>
16. Edward Steichen's Family of Man exhibition includes a photograph credited to this photographer and their actor
spouse Allan of a father and son reading the news. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American photographer of A Naked Man Being a Woman, N.Y.C.and A Jewish Giant at Home with
His Parents in the Bronx who raised fellow photographers Amy and Doon.
ANSWER: Diane Arbus [or Diane Nemerov]
[10] Arbus' Identical Twins, Roselle, New Jersey mirrors the look of the Grady Twins in this Stanley Kubrick movie.
Rodney Ascher documented a bunch of conspiracy theories people believe about this movie in Room 237, which is
named for part of the intentionally impossible layout of its Overlook Hotel.
ANSWER: The Shining
[10] Norman Mailer claimed "giving a camera to Diane Arbus is like putting a live grenade in the hands of a child"
in reference to a photograph she took in this New York location designed by Calvert Vaux and Frederick Law
Olmsted.
ANSWER: Central Park <CS; Fine Arts Other>
17. In Joseph Le Fanu’s novella Carmilla, a lesbian one of these people named Mircalla Karnstein pursues the
young Laura. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of person, which also includes a character who uses the alias "Count de Ville" while distributing
boxes of each. Van Helsing tries to kill this type of creature.
ANSWER: vampire(s)
[10] Van Helsing is a character in this Bram Stoker novel, which is titled for the previously mentioned vampire.
ANSWER: Dracula
[10] Another vampiric entity haunts the narrator of “The Horla,” a short story by this author. In that work, the
narrator invites the title creature aboard when he waves to a Brazilian boat.
ANSWER: Guy de Maupassant <CM; European Literature>
18. This term is often appended to the name of a Saint Justin whose First Apology was addressed to Emperor
Antoninus Pius and describes Jesus as the incarnation of the Logos. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this sort of person whose Mirror titles a book popular with Amish and Mennonites. John Foxe's Actes
and Monuments is usually titled for this sort of person.
ANSWER: martyr
[10] This saint was stoned after he gave a speech before the Sanhedrin. Thus, this deacon and saint is regarded as the
first Christian martyr, or protomartyr.
ANSWER: Saint Stephen
[10] Stephen's martyrdom is recorded in this book which, like the Gospel of Luke, is addressed to Theophilus. The
Saul present at the stoning of Stephen in this book is blinded on the road to Damascus, and soon becomes Saint Paul.
ANSWER: Acts of the Apostles [or the Book of Acts] <CS; Religion and Mythology>
19. This event and the 2014 Euromaidan Revolution had similar goals. For ten points each,
[10] Name this series of colorful protests in 2004 that ousted Viktor Yanukovych. This event was sparked when
opposition candidate Viktor Yushchenko lost a runoff election rife with corruption.
ANSWER: Orange Revolution
[10] Before the Orange Revolution, Yushchenko was mysteriously poisoned by TCDD, a dioxin found in this
chemical. The United States used this chemical to carry out its "herbicidal warfare" program in the Vietnam War.
ANSWER: Agent Orange
[10] The Orange Revolution took place in this Eastern European country with capital Kiev.
ANSWER: Ukraine <KK; European History>
20. Several of these people published “obscene odes on the windows of the skull.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this group of "starving hysterical naked" people. The narrator saw these people "destroyed by madness"
in the first section of a poem recited at the Six Gallery reading.
ANSWER: “the best minds of my generation” [accept either; prompt on Beats; prompt on but do not otherwise
reveal Ginsberg’s generation]
[10] This author wrote of the antics of the Beat Generation in “Howl.” His “Kaddish” is dedicated to his mother
Naomi.
ANSWER: Allen Ginsberg
[10] Ginsberg dedicated Howl to this Beatnik who murdered twelve secretaries in a mental asylum. The last section
of Howl tells this man “I’m with you in Rockland.”
ANSWER: Carl Solomon <CS; American Literature>