A song by this artist compares the title entity to “the holes in your heart” and “the folds of your brain” and
features the artist Grimes. In one of this artist’s music videos, this artist plays an asylum patient who is able
to walk through walls. A concept film for one of this artist’s albums is subtitled “An Emotion Picture” and
follows the android Jane 57821. This person played Juan’s girlfriend Teresa in the film (*) Moonlight and
NASA engineer Mary Jackson in Hidden Figures. For ten points, name this actress and singer-songwriter behind the
single “Tightrope” and the science fiction-inspired albums The Electric Lady and Dirty Computer.
ANSWER: Janelle Monae Robinson (accept either underlined name) <KK>
2. A director with this surname, the second-ever woman to win Cannes' Best Director award, depicted Bob
Harris meeting Charlotte at a Tokyo hotel in Lost in Translation. The making of a film by a director of this
name was documented in Hearts of Darkness. A man with this name juxtaposed a man being shot through his
glasses while receiving a massage with an infant baptism scene. That father of Sofia won his first Palme d'or
for The (*) Conversation, and another for a film in which a water buffalo is slaughtered as Willard slips into the
quarters of Colonel Kurtz to kill him. For 10 points, give this surname of the director of Apocalypse Now and The
Godfather.
ANSWER: Coppola [specifically, accept Sofia, Eleanor, or Francis (Ford) Coppola] <CS>
3. A teacher of this tradition who wrote a prayer asking "if I worship You because of Fear of Hell, then burn
me in Hell" was named Rabia. Books like The Path to [this tradition] and Revivial of the Religious Sciences
popularizing this tradition were written by the Asharite al-Ghazali. Teachers in this tradition are termed
wadi. The Mevlevi order of this tradition practices sama, a communal form of (*) dhikr. Ibn al-Arabi described
how members of this tradition sought a "mystical marriage" with God, for which love for the Prophet is seen as
prerequisite. Some dervishes in this tradition whirl to remember Allah. For 10 points, name this mystical Islamic
tradition associated with the poet Rumi.
ANSWER: Sufism [prompt on Islam; prompt on Sunni Islam] <CS; Religion and Mythology>
4. This substance can form draas. Animals that live in areas composed of this substance are called
psammophiles, and it is studied by arenophiles. At certain humidities, this material might "bark" or "sing"
when walked upon. Bagnold's formula describes the mass movement of this material through saltation. Areas
dominated by this material are called (*) ergs. This material lends its name to a colloidal hydrogel that it forms
with salt water, which makes it spongy and no longer able to support weight. This material is coarser than silt but
finer than gravel, and this substance's main constituent is silicon dioxide. For 10 points, name this material that
accumulates into dunes.
ANSWER: sand <CS>
5. A ruler of this dynasty advised monarchs to visit all of their kingdoms every three years in his Basilikon
Doron. Another ruler of this dynasty began to favor Abigail Masham over Sarah Churchill due to political
differences with the latter. The Rising of the North attempted to restore this house in a certain country’s
throne. That last monarch of this house oversaw the (*) Act of Union between England and Scotland. The
Jacobite Risings attempted to put this house back on the English throne. For ten points, name this British house that
included Queen Anne and Mary, Queen of Scots as well as two kings named James.
ANSWER: House of Stuart <KK>
6. Along with the histamine granules found in mast cells, this structure is one of few that is stained by
hematoxylin, making it basophilic. Plasmogamy in fungi may result in multiple of these structures. This
structures contains complexes known as Cajal bodies. The sieve tube cells of vascular tissue lack these, and
they are notably absent in (*) erythrocytes. A common cloning procedure inserts one of these structures into a
specially prepared egg cell. The disappearance of this structure’s namesake “envelope” marks the end of prophase.
For ten points, identify this organelle which houses DNA.
ANSWER: Nucleus <JP>
7. In a story by this author, Corvick pursues the secret of Hugh Vereker’s latest novel, which is compared to
“a complex figure in a Persian carpet.” In one work by this author, the narrator bargains with Miss Tita and
Juliana Bourdreau for the title documents, which were written by a recently-deceased poet. This author of
The Aspern Papers wrote a work in which the title character walks through the (*) Colosseum and catches a
fatal case of Roman fever. In another work by this author, Flora is scolded by her governess for talking to the ghost
of Miss Jessel. For ten points, name this American author of novellas like Daisy Miller and The Turn of the Screw.
ANSWER: Henry James <KK+ TDG; American Literature>
8. This person raised funds through the Mutual Film Company, which dictated that this person’s battles
should be fought in daylight and reenacted if necessary. A general who defeated this leader at Celaya most
likely approved this leader’s assassination to allow Plutarco Calles to become president and was named
Alvaro Obregón. This man led numerous (*) “border raids” to supply an army, which culminated in the Battle of
Columbus. That battle made this leader the target of a man nicknamed “Black Jack.”. For 10 points, name this
Mexican bandit who was pursued by John Pershing but ultimately evaded capture.
ANSWER: Francisco “Pancho” Villa (or Jose Doroteo Arango Arambula) <KK>
9. Poetry in this form was produced by Bacchylides and his father Simonides. The author of one poem in this
form brags of making a "monument more lasting than bronze." Abraham Cowley popularized an author of
these poems classically divided into a strophe, epistrophe, and epode. That author wrote books of Nemean,
Isthmian, Pythian, and Olympic examples of these poems. The idea that "to die for one's country" is (*)
"sweet and fitting," or "dulce et decorum," appears in one of these poems, another of which says to "seize the day."
Pindar wrote "Victory" types of these poems for athletes, and Horace wrote four books of them. For 10 points, name
this form of a Keats poem "on a Grecian Urn."
ANSWER: odes <CS; Ancient and World Literature>
10. Men of this culture would "sleep crawl" into the house of young women they were interested in. A woman
named Fa'amu from whom primary-source information about this culture was gathered confessed to joking
about it all after the fact. Chicken blood was used to get around the taupou system of this culture, which
publically broke the (*) hymen before weddings. "The Making and Unmaking of an Anthropological Myth" is the
subtitle of a Derek Freeman book criticizing the most famous researcher of this culture. For 10 points, The Coming
of Age in what culture was the subject of Margaret Mead's most famous work?
ANSWER: Samoa [accept Samoans]
11. The phenomenon was first proposed by Ida Noddack in her paper “On Element 93”. Leona Woods helped
solve the xenon poisoning problem encountered during this process with John Wheeler. Otto Frisch wrote a
memorandum with Rudolf Peierls concerning this process that first calculated the size of its necessary (*)
critical mass. His aunt, Lise Meitner, came up with an explanation for this process after observing barium in a
sample of uranium bombarded by neutrons. For ten points, name this process in which a nucleus is split up into
smaller nuclei.
ANSWER: nuclear fission <KK>
12. An event in this city was motivated by Proposition 14, which overturned the Rumford Act. That event
started when a fight broke out in this city after Lee Minikus pulled over Marquette Frye for reckless driving.
An “effect” named for this city’s longest serving mayor refers to inaccurate polling responses when a white
candidate runs against a non-white candidate. That mayor, (*) Tom Bradley, presided over an event in this city
whose namesake stated “can’t we all just get along?” after being pulled over and beaten by four police officers. For
10 points, name this location of the Watts riots and the Rodney King riots, the largest city in California.
ANSWER: Los Angeles, California <KK>
13. This country was home to the experimental "Scandal Concert," which ended prematurely due to a riot. A
composer from this country wrote the characteristically short Concerto for Nine Instruments, and another
wrote a violin concerto "To the memory of an angel" for Manon Gropius. A composer from here wrote a
piece rejected for using a "nonexistent" inverted ninth chord, which is set to a Richard Dehmel poem about a
wife (*) pregnant with another man's child. That composer used Sprechstimme in his Gurrelieder and Pierrot
Lunaire. For 10 points, name this country home to Arnold Schoenberg, who was the founder of the Second Viennese
School.
ANSWER: Austria
14. During this war, the “British Hotel,” where sick soldiers were quartered and fed, was cofounded by the
Jamaican immigrant Mary Seacole. Another figure in this war worked at the Selimiye Barracks in Scutari,
and developed a pie graph known as the coxcomb to show causes of death. Isembard Kingdom Brunel built a
prefabricated (*) hospital at Renkioi during this war to aid that woman, who was known as the “Lady of the Lamp”
and aided the wounded after the Siege of Sevastopol and the Battle of Balaclava. For 10 points, name this war that
saw nurses such as Florence Nightingale heal soldiers as they fought over a namesake Russian peninsula.
ANSWER: Crimean War <KK>
15. This place previously contained a building made of beeswax and feathers. Plutarch wrote an essay about a
large "E" inscribed at this location, whose 147 namesake maxims include the inscription "know thyself."
Strands of unwoven wool were offered here to a stone anointed with oil, which Cronus once swallowed.
Visitors to this place in Phocis washed in its (*) Castalian Spring . This site was home to the Omphalos,
considered the "navel" of the world. The dedicatee of this place on the southwestern slope of Mount Parnassus used
darts to kill Python here. For 10 points, name this Greek site home to Pythia, a priestess of Apollo also called the
Oracle.
ANSWER: Delphi [Delf-"EYE" or Del-"FEE"] [prompt on "Hyperborea" by asking for the other place that temple
was; prompt on "Phocis" and "Omphalos" before mention]
16. A poem in this language whose third stanza opens "I woke up with this marble head in my hands" is titled
“Mythistorema.” The speaker decides that the title group of another poem in this language "were a kind of
solution" after asking "What are we waiting for, assembled in the forum?" The “wine-dark sea” and
“rosy-fingered dawn” were epithets used in this language, which was used to write "Waiting for the
Barbarians.” The exemplary (*) “Nine Lyric Poets” who wrote in this language wrote in elegiac and iambic
meters, and English meters get their names from this language. It was used in Works and Days and the Theogony.
For 10 points, name this language used by Hesiod and Homer.
ANSWER: Greek [accept Ancient Greek or Modern Greek] <CS; European Literature>
17. The left side of one work in this form contains St. Sebastian below a painting of two angels, while on the
right a demon in a window bothers St. Anthony. Jef Vanderveken copied a portion of another work of this
type after its theft. A monastery that helped plague victims commissioned one of them from (*) Matthias
Grunewald in Isenheim. Fourteen angels surround a lamb bleeding into a golden chalice in another piece in this form
created with the help of the artist's brother Hubert for a church in Ghent. For 10 points, name this type of artwork
placed on or behind a central table in a church.
ANSWER: altarpieces [prompt on "polyptych" or "triptych"; prompt on “crucifixion” before “Vanderveken,”
asking for the for the type of painting those crucifixions are found in] [Jef Vanderveken copied The Just Judges
from the Ghent Altarpiece] <CS>
18. A man in this novel who gives a woman the last of his apples scolds her for getting letters from the postal
office in the rain. A riddle, or “charade,” decoded as the word “courtship” is sent by a man who marries Miss
Hawkins in this novel. That man, Mr. Elton, admires a watercolour portrait of the protagonist’s friend in this
work where (*) Jane Fairfax and Frank Churchill are secretly engaged. Robert Martin marries Harriet Smith in this
work where the protagonist of this novel realizes she is in love with Mr. Knightley. For ten points, name this Jane
Austen novel titled for a matchmaking heroine.
ANSWER: Emma <CM; British Literature>
19. Mayer’s relation states that the difference between two types of this quantity equals the ideal gas constant.
A model that accurately predicts the value of this quantity at low temperatures models solids as phonons in a
box. This quantity equals 3 times the ideal gas constant for a solid according to the (*) Dulong-Petit law, and it
is defined as the derivative of enthalpy with respect to temperature. Hydrogen bonds give water an unusually high
value of 4.18 Joules per Kelvin for this quantity. For ten points, name this quantity, the thermal energy needed to
raise the temperature of a material.
ANSWER: specific heat capacity (accept specific heat) <KK>
20. Jim Woodman theorized that features in this country were built with primitive hot air balloons; those
features were discovered by Paul Kosok and Maria Reiche. The Band of Holes appears on a plateau in this
country. A culture in this country built the site of Cahuachi. The southmost province of its Ica region is
named for that people, who borrowed Paracas motifs to make a spiral-tailed monkey, a (*) spider's legs in two
groups of four, along with the "Hummingbird," and "Condor" made with white rocks in it; Greenpeace damaged
those features here in 2014. For 10 points, the Nazca people made namesake "lines" in the desert of what country
with capital Lima?
ANSWER: Peru <CS; Geography>
PACKET 9 BONUSES
1. Answer the following about causes of the English Civil War, for 10 points each:
[10] The English Civil War was a rebellion against this Stuart king, who succeeded his father James I. This king
ruled without a Parliament during the Eleven Years’ Tyranny.
ANSWER: Charles I
[10] One cause of discontent against Charles I was this typically wartime tax, which he decided to levy during
peacetime. Charles also unusually extended this tax to inland counties, further angering the populace.
ANSWER: ship money
[10] This body, which was called to finance the Bishops War, was the driving force behind the English Civil War.
This body’s Self-denying Ordinance separated legislative and military positions, creating the New Model Army.
ANSWER: Long Parliament (prompt on “Parliament” alone) <KK; British History>
2. A note from this object asks for “Macaroni Pastitsio. Ormitha Macarounada,” which a character claims are Greek
dishes. For ten points each:
[10] Name this object which, in the play it titles, delivers several orders through notes to the hitmen Ben and Gus.
ANSWER: the dumb waiter
[10] The Dumb Waiter is a play by this British author known for his “comedies of menace.” This playwright also
wrote about Goldberg and McCann’s visit to Stanley Weber in The Birthday Party.
ANSWER: Harold Pinter
[10] Another motif throughout The Dumb Waiter is this object, which is always “off left” in the stage directions and
works on delay. This malfunctioning object often interrupts the dialogue.
ANSWER: the toilet [accept the lavatory or equivalents] <CM; British Literature>
3. Passport controls have been abolished in the Schengen Area, which is closely associated with this alliance. For ten
points each,
[10] Name this political alliance of 28 states who share a common currency. This alliance was established to create
lasting peace on its namesake continent.
ANSWER: European Union (accept EU)
[10] The European Union was established by this treaty along with the Treaty of Rome. This treaty was amended by
the Treaty of Lisbon, which allowed member states to leave and strengthened the European Parliament.
ANSWER: Maastricht Treaty (accept Treaty of Maastricht)
[10] The idea of a “European Union” was conceived by a man from this country in his namesake “Declaration”. This
country temporarily left the European Economic Community after losing veto power in the Empty Chair Crisis.
ANSWER: France <KK; European History>
4. The arrangement of this organism's flowers is regulated by the SUPERMAN gene. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this model plant in the mustard family. It was the first plan to have its genome sequenced.
ANSWER: Arabidopsis thaliana [or A. Thaliana; accept thale cress]
[10] The ABC model of flower development in this group of plants was based on research on Arabidopsis. Darwin
was frustrated by the "abominable mystery" of the evolution of these flowering plants.
ANSWER: angiosperms [or Angiospermae; accept Magnoliophyta; accept magnoliophtyes]
[10] The name "angiosperm" comes from the fact that those plants produce these things in an enclosed space,
whereas they are "naked" in gymnosperms. Before they are fertilized, these are called ovules, and the process by
which they become a new plant is called germination.
ANSWER: seeds <CS; Biology>
5. In this work, a woman who falls from the moon gives birth to a woman who is seduced by the West Wind, who
then gives birth to the title hero. For ten points each:
[10] Name this American epic which chronicles the adventures of the title hero and his lover, Minnehaha.
ANSWER: The Song of Hiawatha
[10] The Song of Hiawatha was written by this Fireside Poet, the first American to translate The Divine Comedy.
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
[10] Longfellow wrote The Song of Hiawatha in this four-footed meter, which he borrowed from the Kalevala.
Lewis Carroll mocked the “easy jingle” of this meter seen in the recurring line “By the shore of Big-Sea-Water.”
ANSWER: trochaic tetrameter [prompt on partial or “trochee”] <CM; American Literature>
6. In one of these stories, Fujio and Kiyoko’s lanterns shine over each other's hearts as Fujio hands her a bell cricket.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name these very short stories by Yasunari Kawabata, the most famous of which concerns a man who realizes a
drum-playing girl he fell in love with is much younger than first thought during a trip in Izu.
ANSWER: Palm-of-the-Hand Stories [those stories are "The Grasshopper and the Bell Cricket" and "The Dancing
Girl of Izu”]
[10] Because of their brevity, Yasunari Kawabata's Palm-of-the-Hand Stories are often compared to this Japanese
poetic form. "The Great Four" masters of this poetic form were Issa, Buson, Shiki, and Basho.
ANSWER: haiku [or hokku]
[10] Kawabata also wrote this novel, which chronicles the love affair of Shimamura and the geisha Komako in a hot
spring town.
ANSWER: Snow Country <CS; Ancient and World Literature>
7. This institution was led by Tomas de Torquemada, and targeted Marranos and Mariscos. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this institution founded by Ferdinand and Isabella that ordered the expulsion of Jews from its country
under the Alhambra Decree.
ANSWER: Spanish Inquisition
[10] This comedy group’s series of sketches based on the Spanish Inquisition is the origin of the often quoted line
“Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition!”
ANSWER: Monty Python
[10] This American-born member of Monty Python started out as the group’s as an animator, after which he became
an actor and the director of the 1985 dystopian film Brazil.
ANSWER: Terry Gilliam <NR; Popular Culture>
8. While Meret Oppenheim was wearing a bracelet covered in this stuff, Picasso suggested that anything could be
covered in it, leading to her most famous artwork. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this substance which Meret Oppenheim covered a teacup, saucer, and spoon with to make her Object.
George Caleb Bingham depicted workers of this material in his most famous painting.
ANSWER: fur [accept Object: Breakfast in Fur; accept Fur Traders Descending the Missouri]
[10] Meret Oppenheim, Leonora Carrington, Dorothea Tanning, and Leonor Fini were female members of this art
movement whose manifesto was written by Andre Breton. It sought to represent the logic of dreams and the
unconscious.
ANSWER: Surrealism
[10] Meret Oppenheim sometimes posed nude for the photographer Man Ray, who photographed this artist as his
female alter-ego Rrose Selavy. He made a lot of readymades like Bicycle Wheel.
ANSWER: Marcel Duchamp <CS; Fine Arts Visual>
9. One leader with this surname built a school at Purple Mountain for children of dead soldiers, or “warphans”. For
ten points each,
[10] Give this surname shared by sisters who were the wives of Sun Yat-Sen and Chiang-Kai Shek. One leader with
this name was jointly appointed by Dong Biwu as vice president after Zhu De stepped down.
ANSWER: Soong (accept Soong May-Ling and Soong Ching-Ling)
[10] The Soong sisters were originally part of this Chinese political party, which was exiled to Taiwan after their
defeat by the Communists. However, Soong Ching-Ling broke with her family to support the Communists instead.
ANSWER: Kuomintang (accept KMT)
[10] Another former Chinese First Lady, Jiang Qing, was in charge of this political faction that helped drive the
Cultural Revolution. This group controlled China after the death of Mao until they were arrested by Hua Guofeng.
ANSWER: Gang of Four <KK; World History>
10. In one poem from this collection, a woman’s hair is described as an “ebony ocean” which “holds a dazzling
dream.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this collection of French poetry which includes works such as “The Vampire” and “The Albatross.” It
was dedicated to Theophile Gautier.
ANSWER: Les Fleurs du Mal [accept The Flowers of Evil]
[10] This friend of Gautier was part of a club of French authors who smoked hashish, which also included
Alexandre Dumas and Victor Hugo. This man wrote Les fleurs du mal.
ANSWER: Charles Baudelaire
[10] This woman, a Haitian-French actress who inspired poems such as “The Vampire,” was the lover of Charles
Baudelaire.
ANSWER: Jeanne Duval <CS + CM; European Literature>
11. Answer the following related to the Haggadah, for 10 points each:
[10] The Haggadah describes this number of sons with varying degrees of wisdom. It includes this number of
questions, which the youngest child is instructed to ask at the seder.
ANSWER: four
[10] The Haggadah describes how to go about the Passover seder, which celebrates God freeing the Israelites from
slavery in Egypt in this Bible book. Eddie Glaude investigated how this book affected 19th-century black
Americans' view of their enslavement, as seen in spirituals like "Go Down, Moses."
ANSWER: Book of Exodus
[10] A "sandwich" of bitter herbs between two pieces of matzah eaten during the seder is named for this man, who
often feuded with Shammai. He also lends his name to a campus organization which, unlike Chabad, has opened its
doors to non-Jews.
ANSWER: Hillel the Elder <CS; Religion and Mythology>
12. Name some prominent women in Ancient Greek thought. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this mathematician who is believed to have edited Ptolemy’s Almagest, and later became icon of the
women’s rights movement.
ANSWER: Hypatia of Alexandria
[10] This woman was the wife of Socrates, whose argumentative spirit Socrates appreciated, according to
Xenophon’s Memorabilia.
ANSWER: Xanthippe
[10] Hipparchia and her husband Crates were members of this school of thought that was founded by Diogenes and
encouraged a form as asceticism.
ANSWER: Cynicism or Cynic <NR; Philosophy and Social Science>
13. This composer's liturgical drama Ordo Virtutum is considered the oldest known morality play. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this medieval abbess and mystic who composed the Symphonia armoniae celestium revelationum,
sometimes considered the first female composer of Western art music.
ANSWER: Hildegard von Bingen [or Hildegard of Bingen]
[10] Hildegard's music is often compared to Gregorian chant, because both contain this many melodic lines. This is
the number of the Brahm's symphony called "Beethoven's Tenth."
ANSWER: one [accept monophonic]
[10] Like Hermannus Connatus and Johannes Brahms, Hildegard lived in this modern-day country. Bach wrote his
Brandenburg Concertos for a margrave in this modern country.
ANSWER: Germany [accept Deutschland] <CS; Fine Arts Auditory>
14. This field's twelve principles include maximizing atom economy and designing chemical products for
degradation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this area of chemistry whose principles were outlined by Paul Anastas and John Warner. It is focused on
environmentally friendly chemical practices and products.
ANSWER: green chemistry [or sustainable chemistry]
[10] A green alternative for producing this compound is the Peroxide Process. This compound with chemical
formula N2H4 was first widely used in rocket fuels, but is now mostly used as a foaming agent to produce polymer
foams.
ANSWER: hydrazine [or diamidogen]
[10] After Dow Chemical's use of the supercritical form of this gas as a blowing agent to form polystyrene instead of
CFCs, it became a popular green catalyst. The uptake of this greenhouse gas is the leading cause of ocean
acidification.
ANSWER: carbon dioxide [or CO2] <CS; Chemistry>
15. A politician from this country was told to “stop shagging men” in a debate over arming women with tasers to
prevent sexual assaults. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country where firearms have been highly regulated since the 1996 Port Arthur Massacre. It is home
to the far-right One Nation party, though its main two parties are the Liberal and Labour Parties.
ANSWER: Australia
[10] This former Australian PM responded to opposition Tony Abbott in a talk since dubbed the “Misogyny
Speech,” which went viral in 2012.
ANSWER: Julia Gillard
[10] Julia Gillard has since become the CEO of a nonprofit named “beyond” this color, which addresses issues
related to anxiety, depression, and suicide. This primary color typically symbolizes left-wing parties.
ANSWER: blue <CS; Current Events>
16. The Thesmophoria was only celebrated by these people. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of person, the only members of a group led by Antiope and descended from Ares and
Harmonia.
ANSWER: women
[10] The Thesmophoria centered on this goddess and her daughter. The Eleusinian Mysteries centered on this deity
and her daughter Persephone, who were both agriculture deities.
ANSWER: Demeter [or Ceres]
[10] This queen of the Amazons was slain by Achilles, who right after fell in love with her corpse. She entered the
Trojan War to die honourably after accidentally killing Hippolyta struck her with grief.
ANSWER: Penthesilea <CS; Religion and Mythology>
17. Unlike many of the wealthy in colonial America, this person did not own slaves. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this woman who sent over 1,000 letters to her husband John Adams discussing domestic and foreign
political issues. She was the first First Lady to live in the White House.
ANSWER: Abigail Adams
[10] This Abigail Adams quote urges her husband to recognize a certain group, or else it would be “determined to
foment a Rebellion”. This feminist quote is followed by the claim that “all men would be tyrants if they could”.
ANSWER: “Remember the Ladies”
[10] Abigail Adams convinced her husband to pass these bills, which curtailed criticism of the federal government
and gave the president more power to deport non-citizens. They enabled the arrest of Congressman Matthew Lyon.
ANSWER: Alien and Sedition Acts <KK; American History>
18. Georgian danseur Vakh·tang Chabukiani created a large portion of the male repertoire of these dances. For 10
points each:
[10] Give this term for a solo dance. In a grand pas de deux, both the ballerina and danseur will perform one.
ANSWER: variation [accept pas seul]
[10] Ballerinas occasionally dance en pointe, meaning they are standing with this portion of the foot on the floor.
ANSWER: toes
[10] Everyone aside from the ballerinas and danseurs makes up this group led by a coryphee ["CORE"-uh-fay]. The
French term is required.
ANSWER: corps ["core"] de ballet [prompt on "body"; coryphee and corps are etymologically unrelated, for
anyone who asks] <CS; Fine Arts Other>
19. The Weierstrass M-test tests for the uniform and absolute varieties of this property. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this property which is notably not possessed by the harmonic series. The sequence of partial sums of a
series with this property will tend to a limit.
ANSWER: convergence
[10] Sequences with this property that are also bounded must convergence. If a function is entirely non-increasing or
entirely non-decreasing, it has this property.
ANSWER: monotone [or monotonic]
[10] D'Alembert's criterion is another name for a test that uses one of these things to determine if a series diverges or
is absolutely convergent. Any number that can be written as a quotient of two integers belongs to a set of numbers
named for these things.
ANSWER: ratio [accept rational numbers] <CS; Science Other>
20. The double pendulum and logistic map both exhibit this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this phenomenon that describes systems that are deterministic but sensitive to initial conditions. It is
often explained with reference to the butterfly effect.
ANSWER: chaos [or word forms like chaotic]
[10] All dynamical systems evolve towards one of these sets of values. Edward Lorenz names one for a chaotic
system with a graph that looks like butterfly wings. Lorenz's one of these has fractal dimension, which leads to its
being termed a "strange" one.
ANSWER: (strange) attractor
[10] The "swinging" version of this system is also notably chaotic. This system consists of two weights on opposite
ends of a ideal massless string hung over a frictionless pulley.
ANSWER: Atwood's machine <CS; Physics>