As of 2018, a compounds made entirely of this element was the largest shown to exhibit wave-particle
duality. One class of compounds made of this element identified by Simo Iijima has armchair, zigzag, and
chiral configurations. This element makes up compounds predicted by Eiji Osawa, but first synthesized by
Kroto, Smalley, and Curl. These compounds can be foun sometimes synthesized by running a current
between two (*) graphite electrodes,. For 10 points, name this element, which forms fullerenes and namesake
nanotubes.
ANSWER: carbon [or C] <CS>
2. One event in this country was precipitated by the Union of Brest and resulted in the formation of a
hetmanate. That event, the Khmelnytsky Uprising, enabled an invasion of this country known as the Deluge.
Augustus the Strong was unable to prevent Charles XII’s invasion of this country in the Great Northern War.
This country signed the Union of (*) Lublin during its Jagiellon dynasty. This country was part of a
commonwealth with Lithuania for a time, and it was later subject to three namesake "partitions". For ten points,
name this Eastern European country with capital Warsaw.
ANSWER: Poland [accept Poland-Lithuania until "Lithuania"] <KK>
3. An aria sung by this operatic character contains the refrain "why, why, Lord, / why do you reward me
thus?" Her dark hair and black eyes are contrasted with the blonde and blue-eyed Mary Magdalene in a
romanza which also contains the line "concealed harmony of contrasting beauties!" She tells the antagonist
"we meet before God" before throwing (*) herself off a building at the opera's end. She stabs that antagonist,
singing "this is [her] kiss" after he finishes a safe-conduct in exchange for sleeping with her, which will let her and
Mario Cavaradossi get out of Rome. For 10 points, name this character who sings "Vissi d'arte," the namesake of a
Puccini opera.
ANSWER: Floria Tosca [accept either underlined portion] <CS>
4. In the genus Fragaria, this process can occur due to the growth of rhizomes and stolons. This process
occurs in lichens through the formation of soredia fragments, and the disadvantages of this process are
demonstrated by Muller’s ratchet. Another form of this process seen in the genus Hydra involves the
formation of (*) "buds" on the body wall. One form of this process exhibited by certain lizards is parthenogenesis,
while a form exhibited by bacteria is known as binary fission. For ten points, name this form of reproduction by
which organisms arise from a single parent.
ANSWER: asexual reproduction (anti-prompt on "parthenogenesis" and "binary fission" before mention, also
anti-prompt on "fragmentation" or "vegetative propagation", prompt on "reproduction") <AB>
5. A single, very large one of these things appears to the left of a tree that splits a painting in half above a
country road. In another painting, many of them appear above the Rhone, which was a minute away from the
Yellow House the artist shared with (*) Gauguin. Olives Trees in a Mountainous Landscape is the companion
piece to a painting which shows them above the blue Alpilles mountains, spread around a black cypress tree, above
the village of Saint-Remy. For 10 points, name these celestial objects which Van Gogh painted in a swirly sky at
night.
ANSWER: stars [accept Starry Night] <CS>
6. In this novel, a character whose pet befriends a pig has an epitaph written by his son, "He Wanted the
Kingdom of God on Earth." That character from this novel, who compares Communists to Oedipus, falls in
the "epic" category of womanizer and has slept with at least 200 women. His primary mistress, a painter,
battles (*) kitsch in this work and finds his wife a job as a photographer. A couple who owns the dog Karenin leaves
Prague while Franz has an affair with Sabina in this novel. For ten points, name this novel by Milan Kundera where
Tomas and Tereza die together in a car crash.
ANSWER: The Unbearable Lightness of Being <TDG>
7. A thinker with this surname erroneously claimed 150,000 women in the US died yearly of eating disorders
in her book criticizing the harmful "iron maiden" of cosmetic standards, titled The Beauty Myth. Another
thinker of this name mused on Mary Carmichael's sentence "Chloe likes Olivia" and Coleridge's idea that "a
great mind is (*) androgynous" in a book-length essay followed up by Three Guineas. That thinker argued "Judith
Shakespeare" wouldn't have the 500 pounds and private space to become a successful writer. For 10 points, give this
surname shared by third-wave feminist Naomi and the author of "A Room of One's Own," Virginia.
ANSWER: Wolf [or Woolf] <CS; Social Science>
8. Martha Graham's last completed ballet, created when she was 96, was named after a composition in this
genre. Joshua Rifkin released a series of three albums in the 70s which re-popularized this genre. Bethena
combines the waltz with this genre. The B section of a composition heavily inspired by this genre is
interrupted by a leitmotif borrowed from Tristan und Isolde several times; that (*) Debussy piece closes his
Children's Corner. One named "Gladiolus" is a reworking of the most famous piece in this genre, which is named
for a club in Sedalia, Missouri. For 10 points, name this genre of early 1900s solo piano works which includes a
Scott Joplin piece titled "Maple Leaf."
ANSWER: ragtime [accept rags; accept cakewalk because of the clues about Debussy's "Golliwog's Cakewalk"]
9. This is the second noun in the title of a poem where the speaker muses about a "vast similitude" that
"interlocks all." The poem "September 1, 1939" describes "children afraid of" this entity "who have never
been happy or good." In a poem titled for this noun, the speaker has "outwalked the furthest city light."
Robert Frost was "acquainted with" this (*) period of time, and Walt Whitman wrote a poem titled "on the beach
at [this time] alone." For ten points, name this period of time which is Twelfth in the title of a Shakespeare play.
ANSWER: night <CM; American Literature>
10. One holder of this position employed a secret police that used the Manual of Accusation to fabricate
crimes. That leader rose to power after accusing a rival of killing her child, and she named her rule after the
longest-reigning monarchy in her country’s history. Another holder of this position ordered a siege of the
Legations Quarter in an effort to expel (*) foreigners and Western ideals from her country. That conflict saw an
invasion by the Eight-Nation Alliance and was known as the Boxer Rebellion. For 10 points, name this position held
by Wu Zetian and Dowager Cixi, the female head of an Asian nation ruled by the Zhou and Qing dynasties.
ANSWER: Emperor of China (or Empress of China, prompt on "Emperor" or "Empress" alone, accept "Female
Leader of China" and equivalents) <KK>
11. The behavior of these devices at low frequencies is described by the hybrid-pi model. Two of these devices
are combined to achieve a much higher current gain in a Darlington pair. The field-effect type of these
devices contains a source, gate, drain, and body. These devices were introduced by Brattain, (*) Bardeen, and
Shockley in order to replace the vacuum tube. Moore’s Law states that the number of these devices in a circuit
doubles every two years. For ten points, name these electronic devices useful in switches and logic gates.
ANSWER: transistors <KK>
12. The first draft of this poem had four pages blank as room for a "pervigilium." This poem references "To
His Coy Mistress" by asking if it would be worthwhile to "have squeezed the universe into a ball." An image
of "arms that are braceleted and white and bare" follow the speaker’s declaration that he has (*) "measured
out my life with coffee spoons" in this poem. The speaker wonders, "Do I dare to disturb the universe?" in this poem
where "women come and go / talking of Michelangelo" and which begins "Let us go then, you and I." For ten points,
name this dramatic monologue poem by T.S. Eliot.
ANSWER: "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" <CM; British Literature>
13. In a play by this author, prison inmates John and Winston work on putting on a performance of Antigone.
This author of The Island wrote a play where two characters agree that Alexander Fleming is "a man of
magnitude." In that play, a man crafts a kite to distract a boy from his drunken father. This playwright
created Ethel Lange, who visits a penpal in Port Elizabeth. This creator of the (*) brothers Zachariah and
Morris in Blood Knot also wrote a play about the racial tensions affecting Sam and Willie’s relationship with Hally.
For 10 points, name this South African playwright of "Master Harold"...and the Boys.
ANSWER: Athol Fugard <CM; Ancient and World Literature>
14. An experiment to create these phenomena uses a hole in a screen and a Florence flask. A gap between a
primary and secondary type of these things is called Alexander's band. Supernumerary bands appear below
these phenomena due to interference, which tend to accompany their "fog" type. They are always centered on
the antisolar point. Descartes independently derived (*) Snell's law while studying these things, whose radius
angle is always 42 degrees away from a light source. A "monochrome" version of these things can appear when the
sun is very low in the sky. For 10 points, name these multicolored arcs which often appear after thunderstorms.
ANSWER: Rainbows [specifically, accept Florence's rainbow, double rainbows, fogbows, white rainbows,
monochrome rainbows, or red rainbows] <CS>
15. The first movie shot entirely in this country follows a girl trying to afford her own bicycle and is called
Wadjda. A comprehensive reform plan in this country called Vision 2030 aims to promote equality and
diversify the economy. Though not Egypt, this country’s only Consultative Assembly is known as the Shura
Council. With a mahram’s permission, (*) women of this country are now allowed to drive due to a June 2018
law. For 10 points, name this country whose laws are passed by King Salman, the Protector of the Two Holy Cities
of Medina and Mecca.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia [or KSA; or Al-Mamlakah Al-Arabiyah As-Sa’udiyah] <CS + KK;
Current Events>
16. In a cutscene set in the Hardbrick Hotel, this character’s likeness appears on a package of "Sourpuss
Bread" the protagonist finds before remarking "all toasters toast toast." A voiceline saying "so long" to this
king is often misheard as calling him "gay." This character is thrown into spiked balls three times in a setting
named for him "in the Sky." This character is often defeated by using a giant axe to cut out a (*) bridge from
under him, dropping him into lava. A four panel comic opening after wedding proposals made by this character and
his rival introduced a genderbent version of this character inspired by the Super Crown powerup. For 10 points,
name this primary antagonist of the Super Mario series.
ANSWER: Bowser <CS; Popular Culture>
17. This symbol is discussed in the first chapter of Gold in the Furnace by Savitri Devi. Rene Guenon read it
as a symbol of the north pole as axis mundi. 1,800 of these symbols were found in the Hisarlik mound by
Heinrich Schliemann. A left-facing one symbolizes Kali, while the standard one symbolizes the footprints of
the Buddha. This mark symbolizes "all things" as the wan, and is also called the (*) manji. When on the chest
of a statue, it is the "seal on the Buddha's heart." It was turned forty-five degrees by its foremost popularizer for use
as a nationalistic symbol. For 10 points, name this symbol of the Nazi party.
ANSWER: Swastika <CS; Religion and Mythology>
18. This figure is trapped in a dream world by the Fish Demon in a "Supplement" to the book in which he
appears. This figure is tricked many times by the Bull King's wife, but takes her iron fan in the end. This hero
was the stable keeper in heaven, and later guards the Queen Mother of the West's peaches. Arthur Waley
named his abridgment of a Wu Cheng'en novel for this character, who is trapped under a (*) mountain after
he urinates on the fingers of the Buddha. Guanyin gives a headband to Xuanzang to control this figure, who wields a
size-changing staff on a trip to acquire sutras from Vulture Peak, For 10 points, name this simian god who appears
in Journey to the West.
ANSWER: Sun Wukong [or Monkey; or the Monkey God; or Monkey King; or Sun Hou-zi; prompt on partial]
<CS; Religion and Mythology>
19. This cause was supported by the mayor "Do Everything" Neal Dow, who scored an early victory for this
cause known as the Maine Law. This movement was promoted by organizations led by Frances Willard and
Wayne Wheeler. A supporter of this cause was told to "Go to Kiowa" in a vision before carrying out many
infamous (*) "hatchetations". This cause supported by Carrie Nation was legally bolstered by the Volstead Act. This
movement was led by the WCTU and the Anti-Saloon League. For 10 points, name this movement that achieved its
goal of an alcohol ban with the passage of the 18
th Amendment.
ANSWER: Temperance (accept Prohibition or "banning of alcohol" before mentioned) <KK>
20. Opposing sides in this conflict held hands during a procession on Lady Day aiming to end this conflict.
Strong winds allowed Lord Fauconberg’s side to outrange their opponents in this conflict’s bloodiest battle.
An important leader in this conflict was killed in the fog at the Battle of Barnet. That leader was nicknamed
(*) Warwick the Kingmaker and switched sides during this conflict after Edward IV’s marriage with Elizabeth
Woodville. This conflict was ultimately won at Bosworth Field by Henry VII, the first ruler of the Tudor dynasty.
For ten points, name this conflict fought between the houses of Lancaster and York in England.
ANSWER: Wars of the Roses (or War of the Roses) <KK>
PACKET 12 BONUSES
1. This country is home to Alberto Giacometti, who made the original tree for Waiting for Godot and made wiry
statues of people in his Walking Man series. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this home country of Arnold Bocklin, who depicted a little rowboat approaching a watergate on a lonely
rocky isle in every version of his Isle of the Dead.
ANSWER: Switzerland
[10] Swiss artist Angelica Kauffmann painted Cornelia Presenting Her Children as Her Treasures, which is
representative of this art movement heavily inspired by Greek and Roman art. A more famous painting from this
movement is Jacques-Louis David's Oath of the Horatii.
ANSWER: Neoclassicism
[10] Like Paul Delaroche, David later painted Napoleon crossing these Swiss mountains. J M W Turner also painted
Hannibal crossing them in his Snow Storm.
ANSWER: Alps <CS>
2. This meeting was disrupted by the Hundred Days. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this assembly, which decided how to organize post-Napoleonic Europe. This meeting was chaired by
Klemens von Metternich.
ANSWER: Congress of Vienna
[10] This leader represented Great Britain at the Congress of Vienna, where he pushed for less retaliatory terms
against France. This statesman dueled foreign secretary George Canning over the failed Walrechen Expedition.
ANSWER: Lord (or Viscount) Castlereagh (accept Robert Stewart)
[10] Another of Castlereagh’s accomplishments was uniting Great Britain with this neighboring island nation. Along
with Charles Cornwallis, he managed to get legislation regarding this country passed through skillful use of bribery.
ANSWER: Ireland
3. This Venetian designed a lot of the city of Vicenza. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this architect who rotated one of his Villas of the Veneto called the Villa La Rotonda forty-five degrees
so every room could have some sunlight. The writings of Vitruvius inspired his monumental Four Books of
Architecture.
ANSWER: Andrea Palladio
[10] A building named for this architect in Washington D.C. designed by John Russell Pope contains an inscription
in a frieze taken from one of his letters to Benjamin Rush. Andrea Palladio's principles inspired this architect's
plantation house Monticello.
ANSWER: Thomas Jefferson (Pope designed the Jefferson Memorial)
[10] This architect of the Villa Savoye explicated his own architectural system in Towards a New Architecture. He
was also fond of the "open hand" motif.
ANSWER: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret] <CS>
4. This ruler modernized her country’s military by employing Count Friedrich von Haugwitz. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Austrian ruler who came to power after her father Charles VI allowed a female heir to rule with the
Pragmatic Sanction. She was a frequent rival of Frederick the Great and fought the War of the Austrian Succession.
ANSWER: Maria Theresa
[10] Many of Maria Theresa’s troubles started in this affluent Bohemian province, which was invaded by Prussia at
the start of the War of the Austrian Succession. She failed to recapture it in the Seven Years War.
ANSWER: Silesia
[10] Maria Theresa was a member of this European house, which controlled the thrones of Austria, Spain, and the
Holy Roman Empire at the height of its power. Its extinction was probably due to excessive inbreeding.
ANSWER: House of Habsburg (accept House of Hapsburg) <KK>
5. The first theorist to use this term was Andreas Werckmeister, who names four versions of this technique written
in fractions of commas. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this tuning technique which divides the octave into 12 equal semitones. Two books of 24 preludes and
fugues were most likely written to promote this technique.
ANSWER: Well Temperament [accept good, circular, or circulating in place of "well'; accept The
Well-Tempered Clavier]
[10] This composer, whose son Carl Philipp Emanuel was a composer in his own right, wrote The Well-Tempered
Clavier. He also composed The Art of Fugue.
ANSWER: J(ohann) S(ebastian) Bach
[10] Orchestras usually tune to this note played by the oboe. Orchestras in the United States tune such that this note's
frequency is 440 hertz.
ANSWER: A (natural) [do not accept "A flat" or "A sharp"] <CS>
6. In this character’s first appearance, she falls on the bed and cries because she only has one dollar and eighty-seven
cents for a Christmas gift. For ten points each:
[10] Name this wife of Jim in "The Gift of the Magi," who sells her hair to buy her husband a watch chain, only to
discover he sold his watch to buy her hair combs.
ANSWER: Della Young [prompt on Young; accept Mrs. Young]
[10] Della and Jim feature in this author’s short story "Gift of the Magi."
ANSWER: O. Henry [accept William Sydney Porter]
[10] O. Henry wrote about Johnsy, a member of this profession whose life is saved by another member of this
profession named Old Behrman in "The Last Leaf." Todd Hackett has this profession in The Day of the Locust.
ANSWER: painter [accept artist] <CM; American Literature>
7. Why can’t we just let people have fun? For 10 points each, name these movies in which dancing is against the
rules:
[10] In this 1984 movie, Ren McCormack, played by Kevin Bacon, reintroduces dancing and rock music to the town
of Bomont. A song with the same name invites you to "kick off your Sunday shoes."
ANSWER: Footloose
[10] This 1987 film shows Baby Houseman dance with Johnny Castle, played by Patrick Swayze, at the
end-of-season talent show even though her father forbade it, because "nobody puts Baby in the corner."
ANSWER: Dirty Dancing
[10] This 1993 historical fiction piece film stars Christian Bale and Robert Sean Leonard as German teens in the
1930s who dance to American jazz music at an illegal club often raided by Nazis.
ANSWER: Swing Kids <AC>
8. Robert Filmer argued that this office is legitimate due to the holder's descent from Adam in his Patriarcha. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this kind of office, whose existence is argued against in Locke's First Treatise on Government contra
Filmer because no particular holder of this position can prove that he is Adam's heir.
ANSWER: king [or monarch]
[10] This treatise considers Kallipolis, a city ruled by philosopher-kings, who legitimize the hierarchical structure of
the city with a "noble lie" about the metals composing resident's souls. It also contains the Myth of Er and discusses
the Ring of Gyges.
ANSWER: Plato's Republic
[10] John Locke's thought on government is often contrasted with this contemporary, who defended monarchy as the
easiest counter to the "war of all against all" in his masterpiece. Ernst Kantorowicz's model of the "king's two
bodies" is often explained with reference to the "body politic" image on the frontispiece of this author's Leviathan.
ANSWER: Thomas Hobbes <CS; Philosophy and Social Science>
9. This text was in large part plagiarized from Ragnar Redbeard's Might is Right. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this text by Anton LaVey. Its prologue contains nine statements, the first of which asserts that a
namesake figure "represents indulgence, instead of abstinence!"
ANSWER: The Satanic Bible
[10] The high priest of the Church of Satan called its members "skeptical" adherents of this belief rather than
worshippers of Satan. This belief is often contrasted with agnosticism, since this belief implies certainty in the
non-existence of any number of deities.
ANSWER: atheism
[10] This argument asserts that one should believe in God since the possible rewards are infinite and the potential
losses are near zero, whereas the possible losses of atheism are infinite and its rewards near zero. It was formulated
by its namesake in his Pensees.
ANSWER: Pascal's wager <CS>
10. These organisms were tagged with radioactive phosphorus and sulfur in the Hershey-Chase experiment. For 10
points each:
[10] Name these viruses which come in T2, T4, and lambda types. They are characterized by infecting bacteria.
ANSWER: bacteriophages
[10] A scientist with this surname and the first name Esther discovered the lambda phage and specialized
transduction. Her husband Joshua also discovered generalized transduction.
ANSWER: Lederberg
[10] Esther Lederberg discovered the fertility factor, which is usually found on one of these circular pieces of DNA.
They were called "episomes" before Joshua Lederberg coined their modern name.
ANSWER: plasmids <CS>
11. A collection of 305 poems from this country that were supposedly compiled by Confucius opens "Guan-guan go
the ospreys, / On the islet in the river." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country home to the Book of Songs and Tang dynasty poets such as Li Bai and Du Fu.
ANSWER: China [or Zhongguo]
[10] This Li Bai poem was translated by Ezra Pound and mentions a man who "went into far Ku-to-yen," and has
"been gone five months," but the speaker promises him "I will come out to meet you / As far as Cho-fu-Sa."
ANSWER: "The River Merchant’s Wife: A Letter"
[10] In "The River Merchant’s Wife," these animals "make sorrowful noise overhead." One of these animals wields
a magic staff and was kept under a mountain for 500 years.
ANSWER: monkey(s) <CS + CM; Ancient and World Literature>
12. Emilie du Chatelet created the standard French translation of this work. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this book to which a General Scholium was added. Its sections include De motu corporum and De mundi
systemate.
ANSWER: Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica
[10] During the vis viva debate, which concerned momentum and this quantity, Chatelet discovered that it was
proportional to the square of an object's velocity. More specifically, this quantity classically equals 1/2 mass times
velocity squared.
ANSWER: kinetic energy [prompt on partial]
[10] This device is used to demonstrate the conservation of momentum and energy. It consists of a series of typically
five pendulums whose motion are restricted to one plane by hanging them to the frame with two wires.
ANSWER: Newton's cradle [or Newton's balls; accept Executive Ball Clicker] <CS>
13. After some prisoners blame the protagonist for beating a cellmate to death, he agrees to undergo this technique
to have a fourteen-year sentence commuted. For ten points each:
[10] Name this form of aversion therapy which as a side effect results in its subject being unable to enjoy a
Beethoven symphony.
ANSWER: Ludovico technique
[10] This dystopian novel features an array of Nadsat-speaking violent youth led by Alex, though his abhorrent
behavior is temporarily stopped by the Ludovico technique.
ANSWER: A Clockwork Orange
[10] This author of Nothing Like the Sun and the Enderby quartet is best known for A Clockwork Orange.
ANSWER: Anthony Burgess <CM; British Literature>
14. This war was ended by the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this war that transferred nearly one million square miles of territory between its namesake countries. The
imbalance of slave states and free states that this war created was one of the factors that led to the Civil War.
ANSWER: Mexican-American War
[10] This American general, nicknamed "Old Fuss and Feathers", captured the port city of Veracruz during the
Mexican-American War. He captured Chapultepec after he was given command of many of Zachary Taylor’s
troops.
ANSWER: Winfield Scott
[10] Winfield Scott ordered the execution of this predominantly Irish Catholic unit that defected to the Mexican
side. It was mostly destroyed after fierce fighting at the Battle of Churubusco.
ANSWER: St. Patrick’s Battalion <KK>
15. Karasev et al. found that triboluminescence caused by this pressure-sensitive product in a vacuum may produce
X-rays. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this product which was used by Geim and Novoselov to isolate graphene.
ANSWER: Scotch tape
[10] Tape functions via this process in which dissimilar particles cling to another, which is contrasted with cohesion,
in which similar surfaces cling to each other.
ANSWER: adhesion
[10] Tape specifically function through physisorption, which occurs due to these namesake forces. Subtypes of these
forces are named for Keesom, Debye, and London.
ANSWER: van der Waals forces [prompt on intermolecular forces or IMF] <CS>
16. Pliny the Younger wrote a letter to Trajan complaining about Christians failing to worship one of these figures.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name these figures who were worshipped in temples each called a Caesareum. A temple between the Palatine
and Capitoline hills was dedicated to one called Divus Augustus.
ANSWER: deified Roman emperors
[10] The emperor Elagabalus took his name from the Syrian sun god El-Gabal, who was syncretized with this god.
Elagabalus set this invincible sun god up as the head of the Roman Pantheon.
ANSWER: Sol Invictus [prompt on partial]
[10] Augustus was the first to close the gates of the temple of this god, signifying that he brought peace to Rome.
This god raped the nymph Carna and gave her power over door hinges.
ANSWER: Janus <CS; Religion and Mythology>
17. This man split poetry into "naive" narrative-focused and "sentimental" self-reflective categories; his poem about
a "Daughter of Elysium" cleaves more to the sentimental. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poet of the "Ode to Joy" which Beethoven included in his ninth symphony. This author wrote a play
about Karl von Moor, who leads a group of bandits after being expelled by his father, titled The Robbers.
ANSWER: Friedrich Schiller
[10] Schiller, was part of the Sturm und Drang movement which preceded this German literary movement to which
Holderlin and Heine belonged. Its English equivalent included nature-loving poets like Wordsworth and Shelley.
ANSWER: Romanticism [accept Jena Romanticism]
[10] "I cannot determine the meaning / Of the sorrow that fills my breast" opens this Romantic author’s poem about
a siren on the Rhine, "Die Lorelei."
ANSWER: Heinrich Heine <CS; European Literature>
18. Gillian Rose published a book titled for Feminism and [this discipline], which Doreen Massey also approaches
from a feminist perspective. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this discipline studied by the Marxist David Harvey. Torsten Hagerstrand promoted considering time in
analyses conducted within this study of physical space.
ANSWER: geography
[10] Doreen Massey's "A Global Sense of Place" uses this city's Kilburn High Road to explain her concept of a
'progressive' sense of place, which involving seeing places as processes with multiple identities and no clear
boundaries. Whitechapel and the West End's Soho are found in this city.
ANSWER: London, England
[10] A feminist international relations book by Cynthia Enloe about colonialism is named in part for this product
often sold with the image of Carmen Miranda. It comes in false, pink, snow, Fe'i, and Cavendish varieties.
ANSWER: bananas [accept Bananas, Beaches, and Bases] <CS; Geography>
19. This geologist's most famous discovery has been hypothesized as a lower bound to the asthenosphere. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this seismologist, the namesake of a discontinuity found roughly 220 kilometers below the Earth's
surface, at which the velocity of seismic waves suddenly increases.
ANSWER: Inge Lehmann [or Lehmann discontinuity]
[10] Inge Lehmann discovered that this part of the Earth, formerly thought to only be one layer, has a molten outer
portion and a solid inner portion.
ANSWER: core [accept outer core or inner core]
[10] Lehmann made that discovery after hypothesizing that these seismic waves reflected off the inner core. These
longitudinal waves are the fastest body waves.
ANSWER: P-wave [accept primary wave; accept pressure wave] <CS>
20. This country was established as a self governing entity within the British Empire via the 1867 British North
America Act. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this country, the largest neighbor of the United States.
ANSWER: Canada
[10] This first prime minister of Canada played a key role in the formation of his country. He alienated many
Francophones from his party by approving the execution of Louis Riel on charges of treason.
ANSWER: John Alexander Macdonald
[10] John Macdonald resigned because of this scandal, in which government ministers accepted donations in
exchange for chartering the Allan Company instead of this scandal’s namesake railway.
ANSWER: Pacific Scandal <BA>