This bandleader included a request that "if you're a sexist, racist, [or] homophobe ... don't buy this CD" in
the last album by this leader's band. This musician inspired Hole's single "Doll Parts." A song that opens "I
need an easy friend" on this musician's first album was named after this leader told the studio it was "About
a Girl." He quoted Neil Simon's "Hey Hey My My" and mentioned his imaginary friend "Boddah" in a (*)
suicide note read by his wife Courtney Love. The hidden track "Endless, Nameless" closes his most famous album,
whose opener says to "load up on guns, bring your friends." For 10 points, name this frontman who recorded In
Utero and Nevermind with his band Nirvana.
ANSWER: Kurt Cobain <CS; Popular Culture>
2. In this novel, a gun’s recoil sends a knife flying back into the wrist of its owner, after which he is beaten
against some flagstones. A backstabbing lawyer in this novel named Mr. Green hails from the nearby village
of Gimmerton. In this novel, which was published under the pseudonym “Ellis Bell”, a character arranges a
marriage to ensure that his family inherits (*) Thrushcross Grange. That man from this novel was adopted into a
household mismanaged by Nelly Dean, during which he was abused by Hindley in the titular estate. For ten points,
name this novel by Emily Bronte about the doomed love of Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff.
ANSWER: Wuthering Heights <TDG + KK; British Literature>
3. This person conducted an experiment in which subjects had to best identify the perspective of a doll
standing among a model of three different mountains. Lev Vygotsky proposed a theory of “scaffolding” as an
alternative to one of this person’s theories. This psychologist asked children to compare equivalent amounts
of liquid in differently shaped blue glasses to illustrate his theory of (*) conservation, and he described the
development of object permanence in the sensorimotor stage. For ten points, name this French psychologist who
postulated four stages of childhood development.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget <KK; Philosophy and Social Science>
4. This experiment used a mica-sealed tube to contain Radium A, B, and C, and it confirmed a model of
Hantaro Nagaoka. A device central to the setup of Schrodinger's cat was developed as a result of this
experiment. A zinc sulfide screen coated the interior of the cylinder used in this experiment, which disproved
the (*) plum pudding model of JJ Thomson. In this experiment, the namesake apparatus was bombarded with alpha
particles, some of which bounced off at surprising angles. For ten points, name this experiment that resulted in the
discovery of the atomic nucleus.
ANSWER: Rutherford gold foil experiment (accept Geiger-Marsden experiment, prompt on “Rutherford
experiment” alone) <KK; Physics>
5. A border conflict between two city-states inhabited by these people is depicted on the Stele of the Vultures;
those city-states are Lagash and Umma. These people often fought the nomadic Gutians, who may have been
the ancestors of the Kurds. Like Moses, one ruler of these people was said to have been floated down a river
in a basket; that ruler established the world’s (*) first empire and was named Sargon of Akkad. These
Mesopotamian people developed the cuneiform script during the Uruk Period, which they used to write the Epic of
Gilgamesh. For 10 points, name these earliest known civilized people.
ANSWER: Sumerians (prompt on “Akkadians”; also prompt on “Mesopotamians”) <KK; Ancient and British
History>
6. This person attempted to pass the Costigan-Wagner Bill with Walter White in order to outlaw lynching.
This person wrote about domestic issues like the Smith Act in the newspaper column “My Day”. The Los
Angeles Times argued that this person should “be forced to retire from public life” due to opposition to
Executive Order 9066. After resigning from the (*) DAR, this leader facilitated a concert for black singer Marian
Anderson at the Lincoln Memorial. This person helped draft the Universal Declaration of Human Rights for the
United Nations. For 10 points, name this longest-serving First Lady.
ANSWER: Eleanor Roosevelt (prompt on “Roosevelt”) <KK; American History>
7. This composer wrote eight harpsichord suites in one year, the fifth of which ends with five variations of
increasing speed on an air. This composer accidentally invented the organ concerto by playing some like his
13
th in F major—now nicknamed for two birds—as interludes during oratorios. Mozart took the high
trumpet parts out of the most famous oratorio by this composer of "The (*) Harmonious Blacksmith" and "The
Cuckoo and the Nightingale." During a performance of that work, King George II stood upon hear a chorus that
contains the lines "and he shall reign forever and ever." For 10 points, name this composer whose Messiah includes
the "Hallelujah Chorus."
ANSWER: Georg Friedrich Handel <CS; Fine Arts Auditory>
8. An "extended" version of an algorithm named for this thinker can be used to solve Diophantine equations.
The Chinese Remainder Theorem also extends that namesake algorithm which repeatedly takes the
difference between two numbers to find their greatest common factor. Playfair's axiom is a modernization of
one of his statements. This man created the first proof that there are (*) infinitely many primes. Bolyai and
Lobachevsky developed a hyperbolic geometry which does not follow his rule stating two parallel lines will never
intersect. For 10 points, name this "Father of Geometry" who used five namesake axioms and postulates in the
Elements.
ANSWER: Euclides of Alexandria <CS; Science Other>
9. A secret service in this city was led by inquisitors known as “the red one” and “the black ones” in order to
protect against absolutist rule. Those officials were chosen from a legislative chamber in this city called the
Council of Ten. The leader of this city was limited by the promissione ducale oath, which forced him to share
power with the Great Council. Napoleon incorporated this city into Austria in the (*) Treaty of Campo Formio.
Rulers of this city threw a ring into the into the water during the Marriage of the Sea ceremony and were known as
doges. For 10 points, name this Italian city famous for its canals.
ANSWER: Venice <KK; European History>
10. In one story from this collection, a man cuts his wife into pieces after his son steals one of her three apples.
In this collection, fish of four different colours are actually different races who lived in a town ruled by a king
made of half marble. One character straps himself to a roc to visit a valley full of diamonds in this collection.
One story is about the (*) slave girl Morgiana rescuing her master by pouring boiling oil on robbers. This
collection includes “Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves” and the voyages of Sinbad the Sailor. For ten points, name this
collection of stories narrated by Scheherazade.
ANSWER: Arabian Nights Entertainment [accept One Thousand and One Nights] <CM; World Literature>
11. This country connected two more populous neighbors via the Stilwell Road during World War II. The
Pangsau Pass lies on this country’s border with its western neighbor. This country is where Kan Khwan is
practiced by the Kaya people, whose women traditionally wore coils around their necks. Another ethnic
group in this country was primarily centered in its (*) Rakhine state, before this nation’s government began a
genocide against them for practicing Islam. This country is home to the Rohingya people. For 10 points, name this
country whose capital was moved in 2005 to the planned city of Naypyidaw from its most populous city, Yangon.
ANSWER: Myanmar (or Burma) <CC; Current Events and Geography>
12. This quantity is plotted on the x-axis in both the speciation diagram and the Pourbaix diagram. It’s not
pressure, but this quantity can be used to obtain results in an ABG test. The Hammett function allows for
calculations of extreme values of this quantity. This quantity, which can be measured using a glass electrode,
is estimated using the (*) Henderson-Hasselbalch equation. This quantity is equal to the negative logarithm of
hydronium ion concentration. For ten points, name this quantity that measures the acidity of a solution, which is
equal to seven for water.
ANSWER: pH (accept power of hydrogen or potential of hydrogen) <AB; Chemistry>
13. A Betty Smith novel titled for one of these objects follows the coming-of-age of Francie Nolan, who is
likened to one of these objects “of Heaven.” A speaker claims they “shall never see a poem lovely as” one of
these objects in a Joyce Kilmer poem. A poem beginning “My long two-pointed ladder’s sticking through”
one of these objects is titled (*) “After Apple-Picking.” A Robert Frost poem says “one could do worse than be a
swinger” of one type of these objects. For ten points, name these plants which feature in the poem “Birches.”
ANSWER: trees [accept birches or birch trees] <CM; American Literature>
14. This person opposed the “Black Act”, which required a certain group in the Transvaal to carry passes at
all times. This leader’s death was the subject of the speech “The light has gone out of our lives”. A speech by
this leader contains the mantra “Do or Die” and urges citizens to “Quit” a certain country. In protest of a (*)
tax on sea salt reclamation, this person led a march to Dandi. A Margaret Bourke-White photo shows this person
supporting the khadi movement by spinning his own cloth. For 10 points, name this nonviolent leader of Indian
independence.
ANSWER: Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (accept Mahatma Gandhi, prompt on “Gandhi”, do not accept “Indira
Gandhi” or “Rajiv Gandhi”) <KK; World History>
15. An architect from this country is the originator and namesake of the grid plan of city layout. Architects
from this country built the west front of a building higher than the east and added other curves so it would
appear more perfectly rectangular. William Crawford Smith recreated a building from this country in
Nashville. Another building here has a "Porch of the Maidens" named for its woman-shaped (*) columns. The
Earl of Elgin stole statues from a temple here which contained a giant standing chryselephantine sculpture. The three
orders of columns are named for cities in this country. For 10 points, name this country home to the Erechtheion and
Parthenon.
ANSWER: Greece [accept Turkey before "higher than the east," and prompt thereafter, as the first clue refers to
Hippodamus of Miletus, which is in modern Turkey] <CS; Fine Arts Other>
16. During the experience which inspired this artwork, the painter "heard nature..in [his] blood" and "after
that gave up hope of ever being able to love again." The artist reused the setting of this painting for his
Anxiety and his Despair. An eight-line poem recounting "walking along the road with two friends" appears on
the frame of one of its four versions, all of which originally had "Of (*) Nature" appended to their title. Robert
Rosenblum suggested that, like Gauguin, its artist based the central figure on a Peruvian mummy, though it is less
certain that its sky was inspired by the Krakatoa eruption. For 10 points, name this Edvard Munch painting of a man
holding his head and letting out a loud shout.
ANSWER: The Scream [or The Cry; or The Scream of Nature; or Skrik; or Der Schrei der Natur] <CS; Fine Arts
Visual>
17. This work is examined as the first modern novel in The Perpetual Orgy by Mario Vargas Llosa. In this
work, a viscount who dances with the protagonist drops his cigar box, which she keeps. A woman in this novel
gives five francs to a blind beggar who sings under the window while she dies. The daughter of Rouault
travels from (*) Yonville to visit one of her ex-lovers, Leon, in this novel, where she commits suicide after she is
refused by Rodolphe. For ten points, name this Gustave Flaubert novel where the title wife of Charles swallows
arsenic.
ANSWER: Madame Bovary <CM; European Literature>
18. This poet warned "love is strong as death; jealousy is cruel as the grave" after the command "Set me as a
seal upon thine heart." Another of this poet's writings considers a time when "ever the silver cord be loosed,
or the golden bowl be broken." He ended one book with a passage asking "Who can find a virtuous woman?
for her price is far above rubies." He opened another work with the declaration (*) "Vanity of vanities, saith
the Preacher." Hezekiah compiled many of the Proverbs of this poet, who wrote about a woman who demands "Let
him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth." For 10 points, name this author of Ecclesiastes and a namesake Song of
Songs.
ANSWER: Solomon <CS; Religion and Mythology>
19. The T-loop in these structures is held together by the shelterin complex. Elizabeth Blackburn
co-discovered a reverse transcriptase enzyme in Tetrahymena that synthesizes these structures, which is
overactive in HeLa cells. Barbara McClintock first proposed these structures to explain “sticky (*) ends”. The
shortening of these structures is responsible for the Hayflick limit. In humans, these structures are composed of
TTAGGG repeats. For ten points, name these structures that protect the ends of chromosomes.
ANSWER: telomeres <KK; Biology>
20. Six of this beings are listed in the Darradarljoo found in Njal's Saga. The Idisi mentioned in the first
Merseburg Incantation are probably these beings, whose feathered companions inspired the Danish legend of
ravens that can transform into knights. A hero places his sword between himself and of these beings for three
nights after entering a castle surrounded by flames. One of these beings may also be a (*) Norn. They often run
a circuit to and from Folkvangr, or recruit new Einherjar. The aurora borealis is caused by these figures as they fly
across the sky. For 10 points, name these figures such as Brynhilde, often conflated with shieldmaidens, who
transport slain warriors to Valhalla.
ANSWER: Valkyries [or valkyrs] (second line refers to valravns) <CS; Religion and Mythology>
PACKET 11 BONUSES
1. The inverse of this quantity for the electron was found with an apparatus involving a helium-filled vacuum tube
by JJ Thomson. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity whose square root is proportional to time of flight for ions with the same kinetic energy in a
"time-of-flight" version of a lab technique which is often paired with MALDI.
ANSWER: mass-to-charge ratio [or m/z ratio]
[10] In a mass spectrum, the tallest one of these things is termed the "base" one. The height of these features is used
to identify ions in all sorts of spectrometry.
ANSWER: peaks
[10] MALDI uses a "Matrix Assisted" one of these devices to generate ions. Raman spectroscopy often uses one of
these beams of light to induce inelastic scattering.
ANSWER: laser [or light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation] <CS; Chemistry>
2. In one poem by this author, the speaker is crushed by the “awful weight” of “infinity” on “the finite me,” she lies
in her grave wishing to “kiss the fingers of the rain.” For ten points each:
[10] Name this author of a long poem beginning “All I could see from where I stood / was three long mountains and
a wood,” titled “Renascence.” She also wrote A Few Figs From Thistles.
ANSWER: Edna St. Vincent Millay [accept Nancy Boyd]
[10] The speaker of Edna St. Vincent Millay’s “Renascence” grows discontent and comes back to life, whereas the
speaker of this author’s poem “Because I could not stop for Death” says that death “slowly drove” and “knew no
haste.”
ANSWER: Emily Dickinson
[10] Another poet who enjoyed writing about death was Anne Sexton, who recalls this capital city in the poem
“Sylvia’s Death.” Dickinson was the “Belle of” one city in the state with this capital city home to Sexton and Sylvia
Plath.
ANSWER: Boston <CM; American Literature>
3. This man made a killing off of the South Sea Bubble. For ten points each,
[10] Name this first British Prime Minister. This Whig often worked in tandem with his brother-in-law Charles
Townshend.
ANSWER: Robert Walpole
[10] Walpole held power during the reigns of two kings with this name. A third king of this name lost the American
Revolutionary War.
ANSWER: George
[10] Walpole’s popularity took a hit in the Porteous Riots, during which an unpopular captain of the city guard was
lynched in this city. William Gladstone’s Midlothian campaign is named for a constituency that borders this city.
ANSWER: Edinburgh <KK; British History>
4. In one story in this collection, Shoba and Shukumar go through a power outage and end their relationship. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this collection whose title story depicts Mr. Kapasi developing a crush on the tourist Mrs. Das. It centers
on Indian immigrants to the US, including a translator in a doctor’s office.
ANSWER: Interpreter of Maladies
[10] Interpreter of Maladies was written by this Indian author, who wrote about Nikhil Gogol Ganguli searching for
his sense of identity in The Namesake.
ANSWER: Jhumpa Lahiri
[10] Shoba and Shukumar are the main characters in this first story in Interpreter of Maladies. The end of their
relationship in this story is caused by the death of their child.
ANSWER: “A Temporary Matter” <CM; American Literature>
5. In a novel by this author, Genly Ai attempts to convince the inhabitants of the planet Gethen to join the
confederation of Ekumen. For ten points each:
[10] Name this author who wrote The Left Hand of Darkness and the Earthsea series.
ANSWER: Ursula K. Le Guin
[10] In the year 2100, Lionel Verney is the title figure in The Last Man, a novel by this author who is better known
for a novel subtitled “The Modern Prometheus.” In that novel, the protagonist’s fiance, Elizabeth Lavenza, is killed
by the title creature.
ANSWER: Mary Shelley [prompt on Shelley]
[10] An early example of this genre is Margaret Cavendish’s novel The Blazing World, which depicts a woman who
enters a new world through the North Pole. Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein is another early example of this genre.
ANSWER: science fiction [or sci-fi] <CM; British Literature>
6. August Ludwig was the first to attempt this feat, for which he used a "Philosopher's Scherzo" and "March of
Destiny." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this oft-attempted feat. It is usually done by adapting music from an entr'acte from the composer's
incidental music to Helmina von Chezy's Rosamunde , theorized to have been itself adapted from the work to which
this feat applies.
ANSWER: completing the "Unfinished" symphony [accept any descriptions along the lines of writing the last
movement(s) for the "Unfinished" symphony; accept, BUT DO NOT OTHERWISE REVEAL, "Schubert's 8
th
symphony" or "Schubert's 7
th symphony" in place of "'Unfinished' Symphony"; ]
[10] This composer of a "Great" and a "Little" C minor symphony composed the "Unfinished" symphony.
ANSWER: Franz (Peter) Schubert
[10] Schubert's "Unfinished" symphony is the earliest in the standard repertoire this note's minor key, which
contains two sharps and thus is the relative minor of D major. Its minor is also the key of Dvorak's Cello Concerto
and Bach's most famous mass.
ANSWER: B (natural) minor [do not accept "B flat" or "B sharp"] <CS; Fine Arts Auditory>
7. The United States experienced this man’s namesake “mania” during his visit in exile. For ten points each,
[10] Name this statesman, who led the Hungarian Revolution against the Austrian Empire. This leader’s radical
policies were opposed by the more moderate Count Szechenyi.
ANSWER: Lajos Kossuth
[10] Lajos Kossuth led the Hungarian Revolution during this tumultuous year, which saw many European countries
attempt to replace monarchical governments with democracies.
ANSWER: 1848
[10] During the revolutions of 1848, this country’s king Louis-Philippe was overthrown and replaced by the Second
Republic.
ANSWER: France <KK; European History>
8. This American independently derived two equations which equate "d·x d·t" to "alpha·x minus beta·x·y" and "d·y
d·t" to "delta·x·y minus gamma·y." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this scientist who co-names an equation modelling population growth with Leonhard Euler. He is the
alphabetically-first namesake of the above population dynamics equations.
ANSWER: Alfred J. Lotka
[10] The Lotka-Volterra equations describe the population sizes of species in relationships of this kind. The Isle
Royale moose and wolves are used to study these relationships in which one species eats another.
ANSWER: predator-prey relationships [or clear-knowledge equivalents]
[10] This function, derived by Pierre Francois Verhulst, relates population size to maximum growth rate and
carrying capacity . Its graph is a sigmoid, or S-shaped, curve.
ANSWER: logistic function [or logistics function or logistic curve] <CS; Biology>
9. This man died during the production of the film Game of Death. For ten points each,
[10] Name this martial artist and actor who starred in the 1973 film Enter the Dragon. That film ends with this actor
fighting a showdown in a hall of mirrors.
ANSWER: Bruce Lee
[10] This actor and stuntman from Hong Kong often blends comedy with martial arts. This actor starred in the Rush
Hour films with Chris Tucker and played Mr. Han in the 2010 Karate Kid remake.
ANSWER: Jackie Chan (or Chan Kong-sang)
[10] This other martial artist from Hong Kong specializes in wushu, which he brought to the big screen in the film Ip
Man. This actor also appeared as a blind monk in Rogue One: A Star Wars Story.
ANSWER: Donnie Yen <AC; Popular Culture>
10. A ruler of this empire named Abu Bakr II supposedly abdicated the throne in order to find the edge of the
Atlantic Ocean. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this empire ruled by the fabulously wealthy Mansa Musa that shares its name with a modern West
African country. Its city of Timbuktu was a hub for both education and trade.
ANSWER: Malian Empire
[10] Mali was succeeded in dominance by this empire, which was founded by Sonni Ali. Its capital of Gao
eventually fell to the Saadi Dynasty in the late 16th century.
ANSWER: Songhai Empire
[10] The overthrow of Songhai was motivated by this precious resource, which was housed in the mines of Taghaza.
Ibn Battuta remarked on how this resource nearly quadrupled in value as it made its way into the center of Mali.
ANSWER: salt <KK; World History>
11. A trip to a Hoosick Falls drugstore led to Louis J. Caldor's "discovery" of this artist. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this artist whose worked was first exhibited in the MoMA's "Contemporary Unknown American
Painters." This artist was inspired by Currier & Ives lithographs to paint the creation of maple sugar in a series of
paintings titled Sugaring Of .
ANSWER: Grandma Moses [or Anna Mary Robertson Moses]
[10] Grandma Moses was a regionalist, like Grant Wood, who created this oft-parodied painting of a woman and a
pitchfork-wielding man standing in front of a farmhouse.
ANSWER: American Gothic
[10] Regionalist artist Thomas Hart Benton painted the ten-part America Today as this type of work painted directly
onto a wall. Frescoes are a subtype of them, and Diego Rivera painted many of them.
ANSWER: murals [or muralism] <CS; Fine Arts Visual>
12. One of these people plays Amahl in Gian-Carlo Menotti's most famous opera. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this general class of people, for whom Engelbert Humperdinck's Hansel and Gretel and Benjamin
Britten's The Little Sweep and The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra are most often performed.
ANSWER: children [or clear-knowledge equivalents] (Amahl is played by a boy soprano)
[10] Britten revived this Henry Purcell opera which was originally written for Josias Priest's girls' school in Chelsea.
It contains the aria "When I am laid in earth," also known as its first namesake’s lament.
ANSWER: Dido and Aeneas
[10] This composer's The Cunning Little Vixen is a dark, though somewhat lighter children's opera than his Jenufa
and Kaya Kabanova. Both his orchestral work and operas were often inspired by his love for Kamila Stosslova,
which was in large part unrequited because she was roughly thirty eight years younger than him.
ANSWER: Leos Janacek <CS; Fine Arts Other>
13. This region contains the Tian Shan range. For ten points each,
[10] Name this fifth largest desert in the world, which is located primarily in Southern Mongolia. This desert
unusually has a very cool climate.
ANSWER: Gobi Desert
[10] The Gobi Desert is home to many of these ancient objects, which showed the existence of creatures like
Oviraptor and Protoceratops. Mary Anning was famous for collecting these things at Lyme Regis.
ANSWER: dinosaur bones (accept fossils and other equivalents)
[10] The Gobi Desert is bordered to the north by this mountain range, which contains the Golden Mountains
UNESCO World Heritage Site.
ANSWER: Altai Mountains <KK; Geography>
14. A Kardashev Type II civilization would be characterized by the use of one of these devices. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these Class B stellar engines, which would surround a star and capture nearly all of its emitted energy.
ANSWER: Dyson sphere
[10] This species doesn't even rank on the Kardashev scale. It pointed the Allen Telescope Array at Tabby's Star in
attempts to detect a Dyson sphere under this species’ SETI program's search for extraterrestrial life.
ANSWER: humans [or Homo sapiens; or clear equivalents]
[10] Shkadov names a Class A stellar engine which would act as a giant light sail to generate thrust. This quantity
exploited by solar sails is measured in Pascals and generated due to the momentum exchange between a solar sail
and the star's electromagnetic field.
ANSWER: radiation pressure <CS; Science Other>
15. This law explains the formation of eddy currents. For ten points each,
[10] Name this law that explains how changes in magnetic field will induce an electromotive force. This law is one
of Maxwell’s equations.
ANSWER: Faraday’s law of induction
[10] A counterpart to Faraday’s law is this law, which describes how a magnetic field generated by an induced
current will oppose the initial magnetic field. This law can be simply stated as “nature abhors a change in flux”.
ANSWER: Lenz’s law
[10] Lenz’s law can be understood as an instance of this other law, which states that for every action there is an
equal and opposite reaction.
ANSWER: Newton’s Third Law of Motion <KK; Physics>
16. Midas spread the worship of this goddess in his native Phrygia because she was his mother. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Phrygian goddess worshipped as "Magna Mater," or the "Great Mother" by the Romans.
ANSWER: Cybele
[10] Cybele's consort Attis castrated himself, which led to her priests, called the Galli, doing the same. More
famously, this sky god was castrated by his son Kronos.
ANSWER: Ouranos [or Uranus]
[10] Cybele was worshipped by the Corybantes with tambourines, in part because she was often syncretized with
this mother of Zeus. The mother of Romulus and Remus was possibly associated with this goddess, as she shares the
first half of her name with with this deity.
ANSWER: Rhea <CS; Religion and Mythology>
17. This work begins by describing the “problem that has no name”, for 10 points each:
[10] Name this feminist work by Betty Friedan, credited with sparking second-wave feminism.
ANSWER: The Feminine Mystique
[10] The fifth chapter of The Feminine Mystique criticizes the “sexual solipsism” of this man, who is better known
for proposing the idea of the id, ego, and superego and for writing The Interpretation of Dreams.
ANSWER: Sigmund Freud
[10] This other feminist work is subtitled, “Feminism and the Subversion of Identity”. Written by Judith Butler, this
1990 text proposed the idea of gender performativity.
ANSWER: Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity <CY; Philosophy and Social Science>
18. On the way to this location, Madame Schächter screams that she can see flames until she is beaten. For ten
points each:
[10] For ten points, name this location where Elie Wiesel and his father are separated from his mother and sisters in
the novel Night.
ANSWER: Auschwitz-Birkenau
[10] A Wislawa Szymborska poem from this country ends with “listen, how your heart pounds inside me” in
sympathy with Holocaust survivors. Night is set in this country home to Auschwitz.
ANSWER: Poland
[10] Another Holocaust survivor narrates Kaddish for an Unborn Child, which is a novel from this country. The
author of Darkness at Noon, Arthur Koestler, was born in this country.
ANSWER: Hungary [accept Austria-Hungary; do not accept “Austria”] <CM; European Literature>
19. The first civilian government in this territory was created by the Foraker Act. For ten points each,
[10] Name this territory with capital San Juan. Millard Tydings attempted to grant this territory independence as he
had done with the Philippines, but was unsuccessful.
ANSWER: Puerto Rico
[10] A law of this type was imposed on supporters of Puerto Rican independence by the PPD party in 1948. John
Quincy Adams and the Northern Whigs were able to successfully repeal a law of this type that concerned abolition.
ANSWER: gag rule (or gag law)
[10] This president was targeted at Blair House by Puerto Rican assassins, who were trying to call attention to the
Jayuya Uprising. This man gave nearly 350 “whistle stop” campaign speeches from the Ferdinand Magellan.
ANSWER: Harry S. Truman <KK; American History>
20. Teachers in this tradition include Robert Baker Aitken and D. T. Suzuki. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this school which practices zazen. The Rinzai school of this tradition practices zazen along with the study
of koans.
ANSWER: Zen [or Ch'an; prompt on but do not reveal "Buddhism"]
[10] Dharma transmissions establish a person a teacher in an unbroken line stretching back to this deliverer of the
Flower Sermon. He also delivered the Fire Sermon.
ANSWER: Buddha [or either part of Siddhartha Gautama]
[10] This thinker offered a view of Buddhism as psychotherapy instead of a religion in Psychotherapy East and
West. He popularized Zen Buddhism in the US through his book The Way of Zen.
ANSWER: Alan Watts <CS; Religion and Mythology>