Despite a victory over the French at St. Quentin, this ruler was unable to hold on to the Pale of Calais. This
ruler imprisoned a rival at Woodstock due to suspicions of involvement in Wyatt’s Rebellion, which occurred
after a marriage to Philip II of Spain. During this leader’s rise to power, (*) Lady Jane Grey was beheaded.
Since none of this ruler’s “phantom pregnancies” produced a child, this ruler’s Anglican sister Elizabeth I became
heir to the throne. For 10 points, name this first undisputed queen of England, who gained the nickname “Bloody”
for her fierce enforcement of Catholicism.
ANSWER: Mary I of England (or Bloody Mary) <KK; British History>
2. One character in this film writes the Tolstoy quote "Boredom: the desire for desires” on her wall. In this
film, a man refuses to use a cell phone due to surveillance paranoia and lies to his girlfriend about being a
virgin. This film opens with the epigraph "Anyone who talks about California hedonism has never spent a
Christmas in Sacramento". (*) Timothee Chalamet plays a character who dates this film’s protagonist, who uses a
name "given to me, by me" and is advised by a nun not to attend college in New York. This film was the directorial
debut of Greta Gerwig. For ten points, name this film starring Saoirse Ronan as the title rebellious schoolgirl.
ANSWER: Lady Bird <JM; Popular Culture>
3. A dead man is caught stealing these objects around Kalinkin Bridge, but escapes by sneezing in the eyes of
three policemen. In order to pay for this object, its customer stops drinking tea and burning candles in the
evening, whereas the creator of this object drinks whenever there is a cross on the calendar. The collar of one
of these objects “diminishes yearly” because it goes to (*) mend other parts of the object. It costs eighty rubles for
Petrovich to make, only for it to be stolen on the way home from a party. For ten points, name this article of clothing
belonging to Akaky Akakievich in a title short story by Nikolai Gogol.
ANSWER: Akaky Akakievich’s overcoat(s) <CM; European Literature>
4. A "Black" version of this figure titles Martin Bernal's book on "The Afroasiatic Roots of Classical
Civilization." This figure was syncretized with the Celtic Sulis, and Bernal believes this deity originated as
Neith in Egypt. A wooden statuette of this figure was brought to Rome by Aeneas after Greeks stole it from
the Trojan citadel. The Erechtheion contained a similar statue of this deity, who was worshipped there
alongside (*) Poseidon. A chryselephantine sculpture of this deity Parthenos was made by Phidias. Cecrops decided
that an olive tree created by this deity was better than a salt spring, and declared this deity his city's patron. For 10
points, name this goddess of wisdom.
ANSWER: Pallas Athena [or Athene; or Minerva] <CS; Religion and Mythology>
5. A composite type of these substances forms when a solid solution exsolves to create an intermixture. That
type of these substances is called perthite. A member of this mineral group called moonstone exhibits
adularescence. Two of the endmembers of these minerals are anorthite and albite. These minerals make up
the (*) continuous branch of Bowen's reaction series, and they are divided into plagioclase and orthoclase varieties.
For ten points, name this group of aluminosilicate rocks, the most abundant in the Earth’s crust.
ANSWER: feldspars <KK; Science Other>
6. One leader with this last name ordered an “annihilation decree” against ERP guerilla fighters in Operation
Independence. That leader’s minister of Social Welfare established the notorious “Triple A” death squad,
which contained members previously involved in the Ezeiza Airport massacre. Another leader with this
surname was accused of hiding her money in Swiss bank accounts during her (*) “Rainbow Tour” of Europe.
That leader with this last name garnered support from the lower class “descamisados” during her husband’s rise to
power. For 10 points, give this last name shared by Eva and Isabel, two leaders of Argentina.
ANSWER: Perón (or Eva Perón, or Evita Perón, or Isabel Perón) <KK; World History>
7. This structure is innervated by cranial nerves VII(seven) and IX(nine), while the muscles associated with it
are controlled by cranial nerve XII (twelve). The chemical menthol falsely triggers TRPM8 receptors on this
organ, leading to a cooling sensation. That sensation is similar to the more commonly known chemical (*)
capsaicin, which produces a sensation of heat on this organ. Contrary to popular belief, there is no regional
concentration of certain “buds” found on this organ. For ten points, identify this sensory organ, which recognizes the
five flavors of sweet, salty, sour, bitter, and umami.
ANSWER: Tongue <JP; Biology>
8. In this play, a character who is displeased that his D.H. Lawrence novel was returned to the library gifts a
rainbow scarf to a relative. A man who signs a program for a play he starred in is engaged to an Irish girl
named Betty in this play, which is why he cannot marry a girl he nicknames “Blue Roses.” That girl gives a
(*) unicorn with a broken horn to her gentleman caller, Jim O’Connor, in this work where Laura’s mother tries to
find a suitor for her. The protagonist of this play is Tom, a warehouse salesman who resents his mother Amanda
Wingfield. For ten points, name this Tennessee Williams play titled for a group of fragile animals.
ANSWER: The Glass Menagerie <CM; American Literature>
9. After one of these creatures knocks over a screen, the protagonist becomes obsessed with the Third
Princess. One of these creatures befriends Waverhouse and Avalon Coldmoon before drowning in a rain
barrel. Johnnie Walker tries to make a flute out of the souls of these creatures. Natsume Soseki wrote a novel
titled I am [this animal], and Nansen kills one in a koan discussed in The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.
Kumiko asks for (*) Toru Okada to search for one of these animals in The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle, and Nakata
talks to several in Kafka on the Shore. For 10 points, name these household feline pets.
ANSWER: cats [or felines; or neko] <CM; World Literature>
10. A leader of this country fired tax collector Tom Moyane due to action from the Nugent Commission. A
Katie Hopkins documentary titled Plaasmoorde covers a series of events in this country. A Trump tweet
accused of promoting a “white genocide” conspiracy mentioned Mike Pompeo studying (*) farm killings in this
country. Leaders of this country have predicted a “Day Zero”, in which a certain service would need to be cut off in
order to sustain the Theewaterskloof reservoir. This country has been led by Cyril Ramaphosa since the resignation
of Jacob Zuma. For ten points, name this country that is experiencing a water shortage in Cape Town.
ANSWER: South Africa <CS + KK; Current Events>
11. In the second movement of this composer’s fourth symphony, a solo violin is tuned up a whole step to
depict a fiddling skeleton. The fourth movement of this composer’s second symphony is called “Urlicht” and
reuses material from his song cycle Des Knaben Wunderhorn. Another symphony by this composer opens with
a C-sharp minor trumpet fanfare and includes an Adagietto love song to his wife (*) Alma. This composer’s
eighth symphony includes settings of Goethe’s Faust and “Veni creator spiritus,” and is nicknamed for the immense
number of musicians it requires. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of the Symphony of a Thousand.
ANSWER: Gustav Mahler <WJ; Fine Arts Auditory>
12. A 1997 speech by Tony Blair criticized this agreement’s definition of state sovereignty. This agreement
granted Bremen imperial immediacy, which led to a war with Sweden. Pope Innocent X called this agreement
“empty of meaning and effect for all time” in his bull Zelo Domus Dei. After Cardinal Mazarin negotiated
favorable terms for France in this agreement, he was able to suppress the Fronde. This settlement extended
toleration to (*) Calvinists, building on the previous Peace of Augsburg. For 10 points, name this 1648 agreement
composed of treaties at Munster and Osnabruck that ended the Thirty Years War.
ANSWER: Peace of Westphalia (accept Treaty of Westphalia) <KK; European History>
13. A quantity named for this process is plotted against Gibbs free energy in a Frost diagram. In one example
of this process, a reagent containing chromium trioxide is used to turn primary alcohols into carboxylic acids,
while in another, a peroxyacid is used to turn ketones into esters. Those reactions are named for (*) Jones and
Baeyer-Villiger. This process occurs at the anode in a voltaic cell. When iron undergoes this process, it forms rust.
For ten points, name this process named for a certain element in which the main reactant loses electrons, contrasting
with reduction.
ANSWER: oxidation reaction (do not accept “redox” reaction) <KK; Chemistry>
14. Candace Newmaker died in an "attachment therapy" session attempting to "attach" her to a new person
of this type. In an experiment by Gibson and Walk, these people enticed children off the "visual cliff." Bruno
Bettelheim blamed these kinds of people, who he analogized to "refrigerators", for the high incidence of (*)
autism. The "pit of despair" kept rhesus monkeys separated from them, and monkeys chose a surrogate one made of
cloth rather than wire in Harry Harlow's most famous experiment. For 10 points, name this person towards whom
one can feel "womb envy" and form an Oedipus complex.
ANSWER: mothers [accept equivalents like female parent or female guardian; prompt on "parent," "guardian" or
"woman"] <CS; Philosophy and Social Science>
15. This poet wrote about how “I thought once how Theocritus had sung / Of the sweet years” in a poem
where the speaker is held by “Not Death, but Love.” This owner of the dog Flush wrote a work where Lady
Waldemar tries to dissuade Romney from marrying Marian Erle or the title character. This author of Aurora
Leigh promises to do the title action (*) “to the depth and breadth and height / My soul can reach” in a poem
which begins, “How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.” For ten points, name this British poet of Sonnets from
the Portuguese and wife of the poet of “My Last Duchess.”
ANSWER: Elizabeth Barrett Browning [prompt on Browning, accept Barrett in place of Browning] <CM; British
Literature>
16. After encountering one of these objects on an inactive French volcano, Claude Vorilhon took the name
Rael. To transfer their souls to one of these things, followers of Marshall Applewhite committed suicide. The
fact that one of them did not appear is the subject of Leon Festinger's When Prophecy Fails. A square half
mile one designed to create mountains was built in Japan in 1929, according to (*) Elijah Muhammad. They
were used to bring thetans to volcanoes, where they were slaughtered with hydrogen bombs. One behind Hale-Bopp
was central to the Heaven's Gate cult. For 10 points, name these vehicles used by Xenu to bring millions to Earth
according to Scientology.
ANSWER: UFOs [or flying saucers; or spaceships or spacecraft or unidentified flying objects] <CS; Religion
and Mythology>
17. A special award called the Gillmore Medal was created to commemorate a battle at this location. Francis
W. Pickens ordered an attack on this location after a leader refused to withdraw its garrison. The supposed
founder of baseball, Abner Doubleday, fired the first shot for his side at this location. Batteries at Fort
Moultrie prevented the (*) Star of the West from resupplying this location. P.G.T. Beauregard ordered a strike on
Robert Anderson’s forces at this location after Abraham Lincoln refused to escalate the situation. For 10 points,
name this location in South Carolina where the first shots of the Civil War were fired.
ANSWER: Fort Sumter [prompt on “Charleston” or “South Carolina” before mentioned] <KK; American History>
18. Vladimir Tatlin's most famous project was intended to dwarf this architect's most famous building. This
architect floated a dome he created on a magnesium chloride solution to make it easy to swivel for Charles
Garnier's Nice Observatory. His most famous building was called a "gigantic black smokestack" in a petition
by the "Committee of Three Hundred" local (*) artists, though it still acted as the entrance to the 1889 World's
Fair. He worked with Maurice Koechlin to build the internal iron truss tower supporting Bartholdi's Statue of
Liberty. For 10 points, name this engineer who designed a namesake tower on the Champs de Mars in Paris.
ANSWER: Gustave Eiffel [accept Eiffel Tower before "this architect" first line] <CS; Fine Arts Other>
19. A painter from this country depicted a woman at a spinning wheel whose checkered dress melds into the
checkered floor in her Alchemy, or the Useless Science. Blood-red writing at the bottom tells of a showgirl's
suicide in another painting from this home country of Remedios Varo which depicts Dorothy Hale mid-fall
and dead. That artist painted herself with a fractured pelvis in the Henry Ford Hospital, and two versions of
(*) herself connected by a single blood vessel. That artist from this country also put a monkey on her shoulder in
another self-portrait. For 10 points, name this country home to the unibrowed Frida Kahlo and her husband, Diego
Rivera.
ANSWER: Mexico <CS; Fine Arts Visual>
20. An experiment that supported this theory hung two masses from a thin fiber and used a mirror to
measure their rotation over time. This theory was supported by an experiment in which iron-57 emitted
gamma rays and which was conducted by Pound and Rebka. This theory uses geodesics to describe the
motion of bodies, and it was used to correct the (*) precession of Mercury’s perihelion. This theory predicts light
from distant galaxies to bend due to gravitational lensing. For ten points, name this theory developed by Albert
Einstein that describes gravity as the curvature of spacetime.
ANSWER: general relativity [prompt on "relativity", do not accept or prompt on "special relativity"] <KK;
Physics>
PACKET 5 BONUSES
1. A self-professed "ultrafascist" thinker from this country formulated a "spiritual racism" now popular with the New
Right. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country home to Julius Evola, author of Ride the Tiger. Giovanni Gentile ghostwrote a portion of
The Doctrine of Fascism of its leader Benito Mussolini.
ANSWER: Italy
[10] The ideas of this Social Darwinist were adopted to unsavory ends by so-called "scientific racists." This thinker
wrote Social Statics and coined "survival of the fittest."
ANSWER: Herbert Spencer
[10] The second edition of Stephen Jay Gould's The Mismeasure of Man criticizes this book by Murray and
Herrnstein, which is almost exclusively now known for discussion the correlation between race and the heritability
of IQ.
ANSWER: The Bell Curve <CS; Philosophy and Social Science>
2. Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco mainly wrote music for this instrument. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this instrument for which Francisco Tarrega also composed. It is the solo instrument in Joaquin Rodrigo's
Concierto de Aranjuez.
ANSWER: classical guitar [or acoustic guitar; do not accept any other variety of guitar]
[10] Tarrega and Rodrigo are both composers from this country. Its flamenco music prominently features the guitar.
ANSWER: Spain
[10] Brazilian composer Heitor Villa-Lobos dedicated some pieces in this genre he wrote for guitar to Andres
Segovia. Franz Liszt wrote 12 challenging ones he titled "Transcendental."
ANSWER: etudes <CS; Fine Arts Auditory>
3. Christine de Pizan’s The Book of the City of Ladies was written as a response to this work. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Guillaume de Lorris poem completed by Jean de Meun. C.S. Lewis’ The Allegory of Love renewed
interest in this allegory of courtly love.
ANSWER: The Romance of the Rose [or Le Roman de la Rose]
[10] The Book of the City of the Ladies borrows from this author’s Concerning Famous Women, a collection of
biographies of women. Marguerite of Navarre parodied his Decameron.
ANSWER: Giovanni Boccaccio
[10] De Pizan and Boccaccio belonged to this Renaissance intellectual movement whose most famous member was
Petrarch, and which concerned personal independence and individual self-development.
ANSWER: Humanism <CS + JM; European Literature>
4. While jasmonates promote senescence, these compounds inhibit it. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this class of compounds including kinetin and zeatin. These compounds discovered in coconut milk
promote cell division in shoots and roots.
ANSWER: cytokinins [prompt on "CK"]
[10] Zeatin was discovered in the Zea genus, particularly in this plant. Its namesake smut turns this plant's kernels
into mushroom-like galls, and it is usually called maize in technical scenarios.
ANSWER: corn
[10] Cytokinins work in harmony with this other class of plant hormones including IAA in the development of roots
and shoots. The unequal distribution of these hormones leads to tropisms including phototropism.
ANSWER: auxins <CS; Biology>
5. Emperor Basil II offered his sister Anna in marriage to a ruler of this state, which led to its Christianization. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this federation of Slavic tribes that extended from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea. It is named for a
certain Eastern European city.
ANSWER: Kievan Rus'
[10] The Kievan Rus' was often ruled by princes from this Slavic city, which was the capital of the Rus' until Oleg
relocated it to Kiev in 882. Rulers from this city include Vladimir the Great and Yaroslav the Wise.
ANSWER: Novgorod the Great [or Veliky Novgorod]
[10] The Kievan Rus' was eventually crushed by this civilization led by Genghis Khan at the Kalka River. An
offshoot of this civilization called the Golden Horde completed the conquest in 1237.
ANSWER: Mongol Empire [accept Mongols] <KK; European History>
6. Elizabeth Siddal caught a cold after the artist let the oil lamps heating the bathtub she laid in to model for this
painting go out. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this John Everett Millais painting which depicts a Shakespeare character holding a bouquet of flowers
floating down a river just before drowning, as described by Queen Gertrude in Hamlet.
ANSWER: Ophelia
[10] Like Dante Gabriel Rossetti, Millais was a painter from this British movement which abhorred the painter of
The School of Athens, and wanted to return to pre-Renaissance standards of painting.
ANSWER: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or PRB]
[10] Rossetti was heavily inspired by this earlier artist, whose notebook is often called the Rossetti Manuscript
because he saved it from obscurity. This printmaker painted a bearded figure in a bright circle holding a compass
over a void in The Ancient of Days.
ANSWER: William Blake <CS; Fine Arts Visual>
7. This adjective describes a "fuse that drives the flower" in the title of a poem that ends "And I am dumb to tell the
lover's tomb / How at my sheet goes the same crooked worm." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this adjective, which also describes a "carefree" speaker who is "famous among the barns." That poem,
"Fern Hill," ends with the speaker claiming "Time held me [this adjective] and dying / Though I sang in my chains
like the sea."
ANSWER: Green
[10] This Welsh poet of "Fern Hill" invoked "Good men, the last wave by, crying how bright / Their frail deeds
might have danced in a green bay" in his most famous work, a villanelle titled "Do not go gentle into that good
night."
ANSWER: Dylan Thomas
[10] The title phrase is one of the two refrains in "Do not go gentle into that good night." The other commands to
“Rage, rage against the” followed by this four-word phrase.
ANSWER: "Rage, rage against the dying of the light." <CS; British Literature>
8. One member of this ethnic group accidentally kills Ezeudu’s son when his gun explodes, and beats his wife
during the Week of Peace. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Nigerian ethnic group whose members populate the village of Umuofia.
ANSWER: Igbo people [or Ibo]
[10] The Igbo man Okonkwo is the protagonist of Things Fall Apart, a novel by this Nigerian author of No Longer
at Ease and Arrow of God.
ANSWER: Chinua Achebe
[10] In Things Fall Apart, Okonkwo drinks this substance from a human skull. Amos Tutuola wrote about a
“drinkard” who loves this alcoholic beverage so much, he tries to resurrect his tapster of this substance.
ANSWER: palm wine [prompt on "wine"] <CM; World Literature>
9. This company awards its outstanding employees the Lavoisier Medal for Technical Achievement. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this company which merged with Dow Chemical in August 2017. Nylon and Teflon were developed at
this company.
ANSWER: DuPont [accept DowDuPont]
[10] This para-aramid was developed at DuPont by Stephanie Kwolek, for which she was made the only female
awardee of a Lavoisier Meda to date. Its tensile strength-to-weight ratio is five times that of steel, which motivates
its use in bulletproof vests.
ANSWER: Kevlar
[10] Kevlar, nylon, and Teflon are all synthetic versions of these macromolecules, which can be modeled as ideal
chains. They are made up of multiple units called monomers.
ANSWER: polymers <CS; Chemistry>
10. Carlos Santana played guitar on this rapper’s "To Zion," named for a child this artist had with Rohan Marley.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this member of the Fugees who included "Doo-Wop (That Thing)" and "Everything is Everything" on a
classic album named The Miseducation of [this rapper].
ANSWER: Ms. Lauryn Hill
[10] This rapper complained “Lauryn Hill said her heart was in Zion. / I wish her heart still was in rhyming” on
“Champion,” and also lamented “I was uninspired since Lauryn Hill retired” on “No More Parties in LA” from his
album The Life of Pablo.
ANSWER: Kanye Omari West [accept either underlined portion]
[10] Lauryn Hill’s Black Rage tour was paired with this other rapper’s Life is Good tour. Earlier, they recorded “If I
Ruled the World” for the album It Was Written, this artist’s follow-up to Illmatic.
ANSWER: Nas [or Nasir Bin Olu Dara Jones] <CS; Popular Culture>
11. This quantity is equal to one divided by the square root of the product of relative permeability and relative
permittivity. For ten points each:
[10] Name this quantity that is equal to the ratio of speed of light in different media.
ANSWER: index of refraction [accept refractive index]
[10] Applying an electric field to these materials can result in a negative index of refraction. These materials are
named for having properties not found in naturally occuring substances.
ANSWER: metamaterials
[10] The Pockels effect can be employed to reduce this quantity in the transmission of fiber optic signals, where this
quantity decreases due to an increase in the speed of the signal.
ANSWER: time <SS; Physics>
12. 48 states are divided into subdivisions known by this term, the exceptions being Louisiana and Alaska, who call
them parishes and boroughs, respectively. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this word also used in Ireland to describe regions such as Kerry and in the UK for regions like Cornwall
and Kent. In the US, it is usually the level of government below the state government.
ANSWER: county
[10] Though New England counties have little to no power, county seats in Massachusetts, Vermont, and Maine are
formally called this kind of town. This suffix is applied to English counties named for York, Worcester, and more.
ANSWER: shire
[10] This Asian nation is divided into thirteen subdivisions, usually transcounties, many of which were Japanese
prefectures from 1895 to 1945.
ANSWER: Taiwan (or Republic of China; or Chinese Taipei) <CC; Geography>
13. This city is the site of Esagila Temple, which contains the ziggurat Etemenanki. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Mesopotamian city ruled by Nebuchadnezzar II. Its Hanging Gardens were one of the Seven
Wonders of the Ancient World.
ANSWER: Babylon
[10] This Babylonian king is famous for his brutal law code, which uses the “eye for an eye” philosophy. He put a
stop to Elamite incursion and crushed the kingdom of Larsa for failing to come to his aid.
ANSWER: Hammurabi
[10] Hammurabi’s Amorite dynasty was eventually supplanted by this people, who turned Babylon over to their
allies, the Kassites. This people’s early knowledge of iron smelting enabled their military conquests.
ANSWER: Hittites <KK; Ancient and British History>
14. In a sequel to this novel by Alexandra Ripley, the protagonist moves to Ireland and gives birth to a daughter
named Cat. For 10 points each:
[10]Name this Margaret Mitchell novel. This novel features the daughter of a former plantation owner who struggles
to deal with her newfound poverty after Sherman’s destructive march to the sea.
ANSWER: Gone With the Wind
[10]This character, who spent much of her three marriages pursuing her unrequited love Ashley Wilkes, is the
protagonist of Gone With the Wind. This character concludes the novel by thinking “Tomorrow is another day.”
ANSWER: Scarlett O’Hara [or Scarlett Hamilton, or Scarlett Kennedy, or Scarlett Butler; prompt on last name
only]
[10]Scarlett spends much of the novel hating this character, who is the wife of Ashley Wilkes. However, they
eventually become friends, and this character dies never knowing about Scarlett’s love for Ashley.
ANSWER: Melanie (Hamilton) Wilkes [accept Melly; prompt on “Hamilton” or “Wilkes”] <CM; American
Literature>
15. This country’s first vice president was Mohammad Hatta. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Asian island country with capital Jakarta. This country is the fourth most populous in the world, and
it is the largest Muslim-majority nation.
ANSWER: Indonesia
[10] Indonesia was first led by this man, who organized the Bandung Conference to create the Non-Aligned
Movement. This man’s concept of Nas-A-Kom brought military, Islamist, and Communist factions into his cabinet.
ANSWER: Sukarno
[10] Sukarno got rid of the parliamentary system by in favor of this system based on community discussion. This
system of government saw a return to the 1945 Constitution and reinstated Sukarno as President.
ANSWER: Guided Democracy <KK; World History>
16. The ten Mahavidyas are aspects of this deity. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this deity, whose worship in India is third behind that of Shiva and Vishnu. Durga, Kali, and Parvati are
all considered aspects of this deity.
ANSWER: Shakti [or Devi; or Adi Parashakti; accept Shaktism; prompt on Goddess]
[10] Devotees of Shakti, or Shaktas, celebrate the goddess as Lakshmi during this "Festival of Lights", which is also
called Tihar.
ANSWER: Diwali [or Deepavali]
[10] Some Hindus believe that women become Shakti at the moment of their death in this ritual. Gayatri Spivak
closed "Can the Subaltern Speak?" by describing how the British misunderstood this practice, also called
"widow-burning."
ANSWER: sati [or suttee] <CS; Religion and Mythology>
17. Cathbad predicted an ill fate for this figure when she cried loudly in her mother's womb. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this woman whose story is told in the Book of Leinster. She jumps from a chariot when her lover Naoise
is killed by Conchobar, and the many deaths that happened because of her beauty led to the title "of the Sorrows."
ANSWER: Deirdre [or Derdriu]
[10] Cathbad was the chief member of this priestly class in King Conchobar's court in the Ulster cycle. Bellini's
opera Norma popularized the female members of this ancient Celtic priestly caste, who were first described by
Julius Caesar's de Bello Gallico.
ANSWER: druids
[10] Cathbad also predicted the death of Cu Chulainn ["Ku KULL-in"], who used the "warp spasm" at the cattle raid
at this location, a battle against the forces of Queen Maeve.
ANSWER: Cooley <CS; Religion and Mythology>
18. This writer described the unique identity of being both American and black as "double consciousness" in The
Souls of Black Folk. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this African-American activist who led the Niagara Movement, an organization that opposed Booker T.
Washington’s Atlanta Compromise. This person was the first African-American to receive a doctorate.
ANSWER: William Edward Burghardt Du Bois ("doo BOYS")
[10] W.E.B. Du Bois co-founded this organization, which was originally founded to overturn the disenfranchisement
of African-American voters. It is widely considered the nation’s first civil rights organization.
ANSWER: National Association for the Advancement of Colored People [or NAACP]
[10] Du Bois’ views differed from Washington’s in that he pushed for full black equality, not just base opportunity.
He believed that change would be led by this group of individuals, an intellectual elite of African-Americans.
ANSWER: “the talented tenth” <KK; American History>
19. This dancer used his sister Bron·i·slava "like a piece of clay" when trying to demonstrate his ideas to others. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this choreographer. It took this dancer 90 rehearsals to prepare for his 12 minute ballet based on
Debussy's Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun.
ANSWER: Vaslav Nijinsky
[10] Nijinsky caused some controversy when he mimed masturbation using this article of a nymph's clothing.
Choreographer Isadora Duncan died when this article caught in the open spokes of her car, which broke her neck.
ANSWER: scarf
[10] Nijinsky was also controversial for abandoning many of the principles of standard ballet, such as foot positions.
Seventh position is an en pointe variation on this position, which comes in open and closed forms, based on where
the heel of the front foot is aligned with the other foot.
ANSWER: fourth position <CS; Fine Arts Other>
20. Expressions that use this system are supported in Java 8, though languages like Haskell supported it inherently
much earlier. For ten points each:
[10] Name this system of logic invented by Alonzo Church, and named for a Greek letter. It makes use of the
y-combinator to implement recursion
ANSWER: lambda calculus
[10] Alonzo Church was the PhD advisor for this man, who names a ‘completeness’ test for programming
languages. That test is based off of theoretical ‘machines’ also named for this man.
ANSWER: Alan Turing
[10] Turing is the namesake of these tests, often used by companies like Google to collect labelled images. A
modified version of these tests often has a checkbox which is labelled “I’m not a robot.”
ANSWER: CAPTCHA tests (accept "Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans
Apart") <SS; Other Science>