. In nonlinear optics, spontaneous parametric down-conversion increases the number of photons in a beam
by this factor. All operators on quantum systems with this many states can be expressed as sums of Pauli
matrices. This is the minimum number of photons produced in each antimatter annihilation reaction. In
superconductors, this many (*) electrons condense into a quasiparticle named for Leon Cooper. The physics of
this many gravitating bodies is described by the Kepler problem, which has general closed-form solutions, unlike the
case with one body more. For 10 points, every magnet has how many poles?
ANSWER: two <SE>
2. A group attacking this city included a man who was swallowed up by the earth along with his charioteer,
Baton [BAT-in], and a man who ate the brains of his opponent Melannipus. Those opponents of this city were
Am·phi·ar·aüs and Tydeus, respectively. After their fathers led by Adrastus failed to do so, the Epigoni
sacked this city. This city’s troubles began after a (*) Corinthian won its queen by answering “man” to a
mysterious question. After Polynices died while attacking this city, Creon forbade Antigone from burying him.
“Seven” Argive warriors fought “against”—for 10 points—what Greek city, which Oedipus ruled and Cadmus
founded?
ANSWER: Thebes <MK>
3. A con man created by this author preaches on Bar Beach in a play titled for his Trials and conspires to beat
Shadrack in an election in a play titled for his Metamorphosis; that character is Brother Jero. In another
work by this author, Iyaloja marries her son’s fiancée to the protagonist, who had earlier bantered with the
Praise Singer about seeing the (*) “Not-I” bird. This man wrote about Simon Pilking’s failed attempt to prevent a
Yoruba ritual, resulting in Olunde’s death. For 10 points, identify this Nigerian author, who wrote about Elesin’s
suicide in Death and the King’s Horseman.
ANSWER: Wole Soyinka <SL>
4. A sculpture by Pablo Picasso depicting a fish appears in this city’s largest park, the Vondelpark. This city
is served by the Schiphol International Airport, and its tourist attractions include the Concertgebouw and the
Heineken Beer Factory. The term Grachtengordel refers to the concentric rings of (*) canals that encircle this
city, which is also home to the Van Gogh Museum. This capital city is famous for its red-light district of De Wallen
and for its many “coffeeshops,” in which patrons may legally consume cannabis. Rembrandt’s The Night Watch is
housed in this city’s Rijksmuseum. For 10 points, name this capital of the Netherlands.
ANSWER: Amsterdam <JW>
5. One of these people supposedly got his name because he could drink an entire beaker of beer in one gulp;
that man, Klaus Störtebeker, led the Likedeelers, a group of these people who emerged from the Victual
Brothers. The second lex Gabinia gave Pompey power to attack these people, many of whom were based in
Cilicia. In the 17th century, (*) Tortuga was a center of these people. Members of this profession included Edward
Teach and Anne Bonny. Thomas Jefferson refused to pay tribute to members of this profession who haunted the
Barbary Coast. For 10 points, name this profession whose members steal from ships at sea.
ANSWER: pirates [or buccaneers; or corsairs; accept privateers] <MK>
6. This figure is represented in a faceless limestone sculpture whose head is covered with horizontal bands
that may be braided hair. A semi-nude woman reclines on a couch in another sculpture titled for this figure,
which was modeled after Pauline Borghese and sculpted by Antonio Canova. This figure was depicted nude
and clutching drapery as she prepares for a bath in a Praxiteles sculpture. At (*) Willendorf, figurines named
for this goddess were unearthed; those figurines are distinguished by their large breasts. A sculpture of this deity
may have held an apple but is now missing both arms. For 10 points, identify this Greco-Roman goddess of love,
who titles a sculpture “de Milo.”
ANSWER: Venus [or Aphrodite] <SL>
7. The most abundant of these entities in the human genome are derived from the 7SL RNA and are called
Alu elements. Alu elements are classified as SINEs, which along with LINEs are common versions of these
entities. Gypsy and the P element found in Drosophila are examples of these entities. The first synthetic one of
these was based on the (*) Tc1/Mariner-like elements found in animals and named Sleeping Beauty. Class I
varieties of these entities prefixed “retro” encode their own reverse transcriptase, enabling them to insert themselves
at new loci. For 10 points, Barbara McClintock first identified what “jumping genes” responsible for coloration
patterns in maize?
ANSWER: transposons [accept transposable elements or retrotransposons; prompt on LINE elements before
“LINEs,” SINE elements before “SINEs,” or jumping genes before “jumping genes”] <HK>
8. In Dark Souls II, the player fights a large version of this enemy called the “Duke’s Dear Freja.” Mimi, from
Super Paper Mario, turns into this animal during boss fights. In Ocarina of Time, collecting one-hundred of
these animals lifts a curse on a family. In Undertale, these animals sell (*) baked goods and later fight with their
leader, Muffet. The electric-type Pokémon Joltik resembles one of these animals. The League of Legends champion
Elise changes from “Human Form” into one of these animals. Minecraft’s skeletons can ride—for 10 points—what
animal that drops string and can be found near cobwebs?
ANSWER: spiders [accept arachnids] <MGS>
9. In one film by this director, a failed assault on the Anthill leads to the execution of three men despite
Colonel Dax’s defense of them. In another of his films, a character repeatedly types the phrase “All work and
no play makes John a dull boy.” In a film by this director of Paths of Glory, each member of a group of slaves
proclaims “I am” the title character, (*) Spartacus. Another film by this director features the word “REDRUM”
scrawled in lipstick on a mirror and climaxes with Jack Nicholson breaking through a door and screaming, “Here’s
Johnny!” For 10 points, what director of The Shining depicted the sentient computer HAL 9000 in his film 2001: A
Space Odyssey?
ANSWER: Stanley Kubrick <JW>
10. A “geometrical” subfield of the field governed by this statement is based on Caratheodory’s purely
axiomatic statement of this principle. Time reversal symmetry is at odds with this statement, as described by
Loschmidt’s paradox. This law can be expressed by an inequality which states that the line integral of dQ
over T must be (*) less than or equal to zero. Heat cannot spontaneously move from a cold body to a hot sink
according to this law’s Clausius statement, and its Kelvin statement says that heat cannot be converted directly into
work. Maxwell’s demon would violate—for 10 points—what law that states that the entropy of a closed system
cannot decrease over time?
ANSWER: second law of thermodynamics [prompt on partial answer] <HK>
11. A ruler based at this city sent Charlemagne’s court a number of gifts, including a clock from which twelve
horsemen emerged hourly. An intellectual institution in this city undertook the “Translation Movement,”
saving many ancient texts. To avoid a taboo which prevented spilling royal blood, besiegers of this city rolled
up a ruler in a carpet and trampled him with horses. The developer of algebra, (*) al-Khwarizmi, worked in
this city. In 1258, Hulagu Khan led a Mongol sack of this city, destroying the House of Wisdom. For 10 points, what
capital of the Abbasid caliphate is now the capital of Iraq?
ANSWER: Baghdad <MK>
12. An organization that opposes this practice is represented by a red sash and includes members such as
Julia in George Orwell’s 1984. In a short story by Guy de Maupassant, a group of travelers compels the title
character to perform this action with a Prussian officer; that story is “Boule de Suif.” In The Unbearable
Lightness of Being, Sabina often wears a (*) bowler hat while she and Tomas perform this action. The women of
Athens refuse to engage in this activity unless their husbands end the Peloponnesian War in Aristophanes’
Lysistrata. For 10 points, identify this process that can sometimes lead to conception.
ANSWER: sex [or sexual intercourse; accept making love and other synonyms] <JW>
13. It’s not Sepúlveda, but this philosopher wrote a political treatise in which he infamously asserts that some
people are born to be slaves. This philosopher believed that happiness is an “activity” carried out in
accordance with virtue. To solve the problem of infinite regression, this philosopher posited a being engaged
in perpetual self-contemplation, the (*) “unmoved mover.” This author discussed virtue in the context of his
“doctrine of the mean” and advocated the pursuit of eudaimonia. For 10 points, name this Greek philosopher of the
Metaphysics and the Nicomachean Ethics who tutored Alexander the Great.
ANSWER: Aristotle <VS>
14. Union forces won the Battle of Jonesborough in this state. An observer saw General George H. Thomas
“standing like a rock” during a battle in this state, where a telegraph reported that a city was “ours, and
fairly won.” Henry Wirz was executed for his administration of the prisoner-of-war camp (*) Andersonville in
this state, which was the site of the Battle of Chickamauga. In this state, soldiers wrapped railroad rails around trees
in a general’s namesake “neckties.” The scorched-earth “March to the Sea” campaign devastated this state. For 10
points, name this state where William Tecumseh Sherman captured Savannah and destroyed Atlanta.
ANSWER: Georgia <MK>
15. Coleridge disputed Milton’s claim that this animal is “most melancholy” in a poem named for this
creature, subtitled “A Conversation Poem.” In another poem, the author is brought back to his senses by the
word “forlorn,” after he imagines accompanying this animal “not charioted by Bacchus and his pards, / but
on the viewless wings of Poesy.” Because of a story from Greek mythology, the name (*) “Philomel” has
become synonymous with this bird. A poem that says this bird “wast not born for death” begins with the phrase “my
heart aches.” The question “do I wake or sleep?” concludes—for 10 points—an “Ode” to what bird, written by John
Keats?
ANSWER: nightingale <JW>
16. He’s not Albéniz, but this composer wrote an orchestral triptych that includes the three-movement piece
Ibéria. This composer never wrote a successor to his “first rhapsody” for clarinet and piano. Like Holst, this
composer included a wordless women’s chorus in “Sirens,” the third of his three Nocturnes. This composer of
four works titled Images wrote two books of (*) Preludes, including “The Sunken Cathedral.” This composer of
Two Arabesques wrote piano pieces like Children’s Corner and Suite bergamasque. Prelude to the Afternoon of a
Faun was written by—for 10 points—what French composer of “Clair de Lune”?
ANSWER: (Achille)-Claude Debussy <JW>
17. The square of this function of x is equal to “one-half plus one-half times this function of 2x.” This function
of x is the real part of the complex number e to the ix, where i is the square-root of –1. Unlike a
similarly-named function, this function of x equals this function of –x and its value at 0 is (*) 1. This function’s
namesake law can be used to find the length of any side of an arbitrary triangle, and contains an expression
commonly written as a
2 + b
2 – 2ab times this function of C. For 10 points, name this function, found by dividing the
length of the adjacent leg of a right triangle by its hypotenuse, in contrast to the sine function.
ANSWER: cosine <JW>
18. This woman engages in a levirate-like marriage after Ploni Almoni forfeits a sandal, renouncing his own
right to marry her. After the death of Mahlon, this woman uncovers the feet of a man sleeping on a threshing
floor and rests next to him. This woman leaves Orpah behind in her homeland. Through her son Obed, this
woman joins Tamar, Rahab, Bathsheba, and (*) Mary in Matthew’s genealogy of Jesus. After declaring “your
people shall be my people, your God my God,” this woman supports her mother-in-law Naomi by gleaning barley.
Boaz ultimately married—for 10 points—what faithful Moabite woman of the Old Testament?
ANSWER: Ruth <AY>
19. A man named Tarp gives a leg iron to the protagonist of this novel, who is repeatedly forgiven for not
paying his rent by Mary Rambo. For taking Mr. Norton to the Golden Day and letting him speak with Jim
Trueblood, the protagonist of this novel is kicked out of a college run by Dr. (*) Bledsoe. The narrator of this
novel, who now lives in an underground room lit by hundreds of electric lights, gets a job with Liberty Paints and is
compelled to take part in a humiliating “battle royal.” Ras the Destroyer incites a riot at the end of—for 10
points—what novel with an unnamed black narrator, by Ralph Ellison?
ANSWER: Invisible Man [do not accept or prompt on “The Invisible Man”] <JW>
20. A politician from this region gained prominence after editing a book on its 1949 “Asbestos Strike.” That
politician from this region claimed to have only said “fuddle duddle” when he was accused of cursing in
Parliament. The Meech Lake Accords were proposed to gain this region’s support for constitutional changes.
In the 1960s, this region underwent the (*) Quiet Revolution. A city in this region hosted the 1967 World’s Fair.
The War Measures Act was invoked after a group promoting this province’s separatism kidnapped James Cross and
Pierre Laporte. Pierre Trudeau was from—for 10 points—what French-speaking Canadian province?
ANSWER: Québec <MK>
1. Mummified crocodile eggs were sometimes offered to this god at his sanctuary of Crocodilopolis. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this Egyptian fertility god, who bore epithets like “he who eats while he mates.” This god retrieved
Horus’ hands after Isis cut them off.
ANSWER: Sobek [or Sochet]
[10] As a god of fertility, Sobek was closely associated with this Egyptian river. The god Hapi symbolized the
annual flooding of this river.
ANSWER: Nile River
[10] The Book of Faiyum, told from Sobek’s point of view, syncretizes him with this other deity. In his typical form,
this god repeatedly fought against the monster Apep.
ANSWER: Sobek-Ra [or Re] <AY>
2. This director’s film The Magnificent Ambersons adapted a novel by Booth Tarkington. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this filmmaker, who also directed The Lady from Shanghai and a film where the protagonist has an affair
with the opera singer Susan Alexander.
ANSWER: Orson Welles
[10] The opera singer Susan Alexander appears in this Welles film, which follows the rise and fall of a newspaper
tycoon. At the beginning of this film, a man drops a snow globe and dies after whispering the word “Rosebud.”
ANSWER: Citizen Kane
[10] Welles’s last Hollywood film was this 1958 noir thriller. It follows Hank Quinlan, a corrupt cop in a border
town, and begins with a legendary three-minute-long tracking shot following a bomb placed in a car.
ANSWER: Touch of Evil <BCE>
3. This class is subdivided into orders Caudata, Anura, and Gymnophiona. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this endangered class, extinct varieties of which include the 30-foot-long Prionosuchus, whose snout
resembles the unrelated gharial and gar. Members of this class possess an unusual three-chambered heart.
ANSWER: amphibians
[10] The rapid decline of amphibians is due in large part to chytridiomycosis, which is caused by one of these
organisms. Other varieties of these organisms include Candida albicans, which is responsible for yeast infections.
ANSWER: fungi [or fungus]
[10] A fungus called Tropical Race 4 is responsible for the current crisis in the production of this food. That fungus’
predecessor annihilated large scale production of the now-obsolete Gros Michel variety of this foodstuff.
ANSWER: bananas <HK>
4. Solon offended a ruler of this kingdom by telling him that Tellus the Athenian was the happiest man in the world.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Anatolian kingdom, the first state to use coins. A ruler of this kingdom, Croesus, learned that he
would destroy a great empire by attacking Persia; doing so, he lost at Thymbra, destroying his own great empire.
ANSWER: Croesus of Lydia
[10] This author tells the stories of Solon and Croesus in his Histories. This man is often called the “Father of
History.”
ANSWER: Herodotus [accept, but do not otherwise reveal, Herodotus of Halicarnassus]
[10] Herodotus was born in this city in Asia Minor. In this city, Artemisia II built a massive “Mausoleum” that was
considered one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.
ANSWER: Mausoleum of Halicarnassus <MK>
5. Answer the following about animals in the works of Edgar Allan Poe, for 10 points each:
[10] This animal is described as “sagacious to an astonishing degree.” A narrator gouges this animal’s eye out with a
penknife and kills his wife when he cannot destroy this animal.
ANSWER: “The Black Cat” [accept Pluto]
[10] The speaker of a poem by Poe asks this title bird to “Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from
off my door!”, but “Quoth [this animal] ‘Nevermore.’”
ANSWER: “The Raven”
[10] This short story’s title animal bites William Legrand, who deciphers a cryptogram leading to the buried treasure
of Captain Kidd. The title animal of this short story is a large, shiny insect.
ANSWER: “The Gold-Bug” <MGS>
6. Answer some questions about the typical layout of Roman Catholic churches, for 10 points each:
[10] In Roman Catholicism, priests conduct the majority of services from behind this structure, which must contain a
relic of a saint. The bread and wine are consecrated on this structure during the Eucharistic rite.
ANSWER: altar
[10] The congregation sits in this central part of a Roman Catholic church, which is flanked on either side by aisles.
Traditionally, its upkeep was the responsibility of the parishioners.
ANSWER: nave
[10] Some Roman Catholic churches feature special “lofts” from which this ensemble sings liturgies and hymns
during services.
ANSWER: church choir [or chorus; or reasonable equivalents] <MK>
7. Optics experiments are often carried out on air tables to isolate their delicate components from vibrations. Answer
the following about the physics of air tables, for 10 points each.
[10] Though the table is separated from vibrations on the ground by a column of air in each leg, the displaced air
still exerts a force given by this law. For a spring, this law states that “F equals negative k times x.”
ANSWER: Hooke’s law
[10] The table’s legs will transmit only a small fraction of outside vibrations as long as their frequency is far above
the characteristic frequency of this phenomenon, in which driven vibrations of the table grow without bound.
ANSWER: resonance [accept resonant frequency]
[10] Suppose the air column in each table leg has mass M, cross-sectional area A, and height h. Of the quantities M,
A, h, and the acceleration due to gravity, g, which two quantities should appear in the formula for the table’s
resonant frequency?
ANSWER: g and h [accept in either order; accept square root of g over h; accept acceleration due to gravity and
height] <SE>
8. This process can be modeled by a function named for Cobb and Douglas, For 10 points each:
[10] Give the name for the process that takes one or more inputs to create a consumable output.
ANSWER: production [accept word forms]
[10] The L in the Cobb-Douglas function represents this common input to production. Suppliers of this input, or
workers, can be represented by unions.
ANSWER: labor
[10] The exponents in the Cobb-Douglas Function represent this value for labor and capital. This quantity represents
how responsive output is to changes in the inputs.
ANSWER: output elasticity <BY>
9. According to legend, a commander at this location yelled “come out you old Rat!” to William Delaplace. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this location on Lake Champlain that was seized by Ethan Allen’s Green Mountain Boys during the
American Revolution.
ANSWER: Fort Ticonderoga
[10] After the capture of Fort Ticonderoga, American forces transported these weapons to Boston in the “noble train
of artillery.” The range of these weapons was affected by the amount of powder used by their crews.
ANSWER: cannons [accept mortars; accept howitzers]
[10] This man led the “noble train of artillery” from Fort Ticonderoga to Boston. This man founded the Society of
the Cincinnati.
ANSWER: Henry Knox <MK>
10. An author from this country wrote the novel The Wreath, in which the protagonist falls in love with the heir to
Husaby after being sent to a Benedictine nunnery. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this country. Another author from this country wrote the novel Hunger, in which the protagonist meets
a woman named “Ylajali.”
ANSWER: Norway
[10] In this play by a Norwegian author, the character Gregers claims his destiny is to “be the thirteenth at the table.”
In this play, Hedvig shoots herself in her family’s loft.
ANSWER: The Wild Duck
[10] This Norwegian author wrote the play The Wild Duck. He also wrote Hedda Gabler, An Enemy of the People,
and A Doll’s House.
ANSWER: Henrik (Johan) Ibsen <SL>
11. Outside of Tibet, this is the largest and highest plateau in the world. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this area where the Andes are at their widest, a high plateau whose extremes contain parts of Peru, Chile,
and Argentina. This region contains Lake Titicaca and is known for its mining and llama and vicuña herding.
ANSWER: Altiplano [or Collao]
[10] The bulk of the Altiplano is contained within the borders of this landlocked South American country. This
country’s two capitals are La Paz and Sucre, and it is home to the Aymara people.
ANSWER: Bolivia
[10] Bolivia’s Altiplano is home to the Salar de Uyuni, the world’s largest “flat” covered in this substance. Both the
Salar’s clear skies and its overlying layer of this substance make it ideal for calibrating satellites.
ANSWER: salt <HK>
12. For 10 points each—answer the following about roses and music:
[10] Robert Schumann wrote songs like “With Myrtles and Roses” and “The Roses, the Lilies” after becoming
engaged to this virtuoso pianist and composer, who pioneered the modern piano recital by playing from memory.
ANSWER: Clara Wieck [accept either name; accept Clara Schumann]
[10] In Richard Strauss’ Der Rosenkavalier, the teenager Octavian presents the title silver rose to Sophie with the
help of this older woman. The opera controversially begins with Octavian and this woman in bed together.
ANSWER: Marschallin [accept Princess Marie Therese von Werdenberg]
[10] Johann Strauss Junior drew from his operetta The Queen’s Lace Handkerchief to write a piece in this genre
called Roses of the South. Strauss is often called the “king” of this ballroom dance’s Viennese variety.
ANSWER: waltzes [or Walzer] <AY>
13. The technique of Gaussian elimination can be used to perform a variety of operations on these objects, including
computing their rank and inverting them. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these mathematical objects that consist of a series of numbers placed in a rectangular array. In linear
algebra, these objects represent linear maps and are used alongside vectors.
ANSWER: matrix [or matrices]
[10] Once Gaussian elimination is complete, the matrix has been transformed into this form. In this form, each row
has a leading coefficient, or pivot element, which must lie to the right of the previous row’s leading coefficient.
ANSWER: row echelon form [accept reduced row echelon form]
[10] For a matrix to have an inverse, this value must be nonzero. Cofactor expansion can be used to find this value,
which is often expressed by the formula ad minus bc for a 2-by-2 matrix.
ANSWER: determinant <BY>
14. This character tells her father “I love your Majesty / according to my bond; no more nor less.” For 10 points
each: [10] Name this younger sister of Goneril and Regan. Unlike her sisters, she refuses to flatter her father in order
to receive a share of his realm, leading to her disinheritance.
ANSWER: Cordelia
[10] When Cordelia’s father asks her “what can you say to draw / a third more opulent than your sisters?”, she
simply answers with this word, which causes her father to become extremely angry.
ANSWER: “Nothing, my lord.”
[10] Cordelia features in this Shakespeare play, in which she is the daughter of the title monarch. Both Cordelia and
this play’s title character meet a gruesome end at its conclusion.
ANSWER: King Lear <MGS>
15. In this country, King Victor Emmanuel III reinstated the office of Prime Minister after ousting Benito Mussolini.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country whose current Prime Minister, Giuseppe Conte, leads a populist coalition of the Five Star
Movement and the League.
ANSWER: Italy [or Italian Republic; or Repubblica italiana]
[10] This Prime Minister of Italy arranged the “historic compromise,” where the Italian Communist Party supported
the Christian Democracy Party. As a result of the compromise, the Red Brigades kidnapped and killed this man.
ANSWER: Aldo Moro
[10] This Prime Minister of Italy threw infamous “bunga bunga” parties while in office. This man founded the
broadcasting group Mediaset.
ANSWER: Silvio Berlusconi <MK>
16. Answer some questions about the odd animals that NHL fans sometimes throw onto the ice. For 10 points each:
[10] In 1995, this team’s forward Scott Mellanby killed a rat in the locker room, then scored two goals in that night’s
game to complete a “rat trick.” This team’s fans thus sporadically throw plastic rats onto the ice of its BB&T Center.
ANSWER: Florida Panthers [accept either underlined portion]
[10] Fans of the Nashville Predators threw catfish onto the ice during the 2017 Stanley Cup Finals, which the
Predators lost to this team. This team’s players include Evgeni Malkin.
ANSWER: Pittsburgh Penguins [accept either underlined portion]
[10] In 1952, fans of the Detroit Red Wings threw one of these animals onto the ice, reasoning that its eight arms
represented the eight playoff wins that a team needed to win a Stanley Cup at the time.
ANSWER: octopuses <VS>
17. In this painting, some discarded red robes and a pair of red slippers to the right of the action provide the only
bright color. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting, in which the central scantily-clad woman gazes at the viewer in an apparent plea for help.
One man pulls at her garments and another looks on, smiling.
ANSWER: Susanna and the Elders
[10] This Dutch Golden Age painter of Susanna and the Elders is more famous for depicting a girl with a chicken in
her belt amidst a shooting company in The Night Watch.
ANSWER: Rembrandt van Rijn
[10] This Renaissance artist painted several versions of Susanna and the Elders. She placed the face of her rapist on
a severed head in Judith Slaying Holofernes.
ANSWER: Artemisia Gentileschi <JW>
18. According to legend, this dynasty’s final emperor created a wine-filled lake with a “meat forest” on its central
island. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this dynasty, China’s earliest to be attested by archaeological evidence. It succeeded a dynasty founded
by Yu the Great.
ANSWER: Shang dynasty [accept Yin dynasty]
[10] The fall of this other Chinese dynasty led to the beginning of the Three Kingdoms period. This dynasty shares
its name with the predominant ethnic group in modern China.
ANSWER: Han dynasty
[10] The only ruler of this Chinese dynasty, which is more properly considered an interregnum period in the history
of the Han dynasty, was Wang Mang. This “dynasty” ruled from 9 to 23 A.D.
ANSWER: Xin dynasty <MK>
19. Density is defined as mass divided by this quantity, and molarity can be found by dividing moles by this
quantity.For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity often measured in cubic meters or liters.
ANSWER: volume
[10] This theory of the behavior of gases neglects the volume of gas molecules in its calculations. Its other
assumptions include perfectly elastic collisions between gas molecules and a lack of intermolecular interactions.
ANSWER: kinetic theory of gases [or kinetic molecular theory; or KMT]
[10] Two answers required. In their Dutch namesake’s equation of state which corrects the ideal gas law, these two
constants account for the attractive and repulsive intermolecular interactions neglected by kinetic molecular theory.
ANSWER: the van der Waals a and b constants [prompt on van der Waals constants or van der Waals coefficients]
<MP/HK>
20. This novel’s protagonist, Amir, writes a story about a man who kills his wife to cry pearl tears. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this novel in which Amir fails to save his half-brother Hassan from being raped, frames him for a crime,
and then moves to America. This novel by Khaled Hosseini is titled for Hassan’s role in a certain sport.
ANSWER: The Kite Runner
[10] In The Kite Runner, Amir’s father argues that no matter what the mullahs teach, this is the only sin, and that all
other sins can be condensed into this one. Amir falsely accuses Hassan of having committed this crime.
ANSWER: theft [accept equivalents like robbery or stealing]
[10] The Kite Runner is set in this home country of Hosseini, where he also set other novels like A Thousand
Splendid Suns. Hassan takes part in kite fights in this country’s capital of Kabul.
ANSWER: Afghanistan <HK>