1. The common name for this statement was coined in a 1966 book by George Stigler, who supposedly
demonstrated it by shuffling chairs at a dinner party. The paper that formulated this statement
illustrated it with such examples as an English windmill and feuding hotels in Florida. Defined property
rights and low transaction costs are necessary for the validity of this statement, which was developed to
analyze whether (*) radio frequencies should be regulated. As formulated in "The Problem of Social Cost,"
this statement suggests that property owners will bargain without government intervention to determine liability
for damage due to pollution. For 10 points, name this theorem about the resolution of externalities, named for a
Chicago School economist.
ANSWER: Coase theorem [accept Coase's theorem]
<Alston, Social Science - Economics>
2. An elderly romance novelist finances a character's visits to one of these places that a woman contrasts
with a much worse one named Wymark. In between staying at one of these places, a book's narrator
starts hemorrhaging after she sleeps with a math professor named Irwin. That same character, a former
intern at a magazine called Ladies' Day, encounters her friend Joan Gilling at one of these places. Billy (*)
Bibbitt sleeps with a prostitute named Candy in one of these places. Time spent at one of these places
temporarily lifts the metaphorical title object from Esther Greenwood's head in the only novel by Sylvia Plath.
For 10 points, Randle P. McMurphy is forced to get a lobotomy in what type of place, the setting of One Flew
Over the Cuckoo's Nest?
ANSWER: insane asylum [or mental institution; or psychiatric hospital; prompt on hospital]
<Bentley, Literature - American>
3. In early music, the function of these musical elements was performed by passages consisting of a sixth
expanding by step in contrary motion to an octave, called a clausula vera ("CLOW-soo-lie VAIR-eye"). Two
consecutive dissonances, usually at an interval of a major or minor second, exemplify one of these musical
elements called a "clash" named for Arcangelo Corelli. The so-called "Amen" progression exemplifies
one of these elements which passes through the subdominant, but not the dominant, and is called a (*)
"plagal" one. Unexpected, dissonant chords come at the end of "false" or "deceptive" examples of these
elements, which intentionally fail to create a sense of finality. For 10 points, name these chord progressions that
resolve a musical phrase or piece.
ANSWER: cadences [accept cadenzas; accept Corelli cadences or plagal cadences or false cadences; prompt
on resolutions; prompt on clash before "clash"]
<Alston, Fine Arts - Music>
NSC 2019 - Round 05 - Page 1 of 14
4. A set of basis functions that are solutions to Laplace's equation are so-named since they were generated
by extracting out an rl factor under this system. Systems in which there is symmetry around a single
point and not a whole line, such as models of the geoid, often use a set of orthogonal harmonic functions
named for this system. The formula for this system's volume (*) element is the square of the distance times
the sine of an angle times three infinitesimals. Weather systems over a planet may be specified using this
coordinate system's radial, azimuthal, and zenith components, represented as r, phi, and rho respectively. For 10
points, what 3-dimensional coordinate system is formed by adding a third angle to the 2D polar coordinate
system?
ANSWER: spherical coordinates [accept sphere coordinates]
<Jose, Science - Math>
5. Inside this man's luggage, U.S. customs agents found diaper bags containing 24 gold bricks inscribed
"To my husband, on our 24th anniversary." A U.S. threat to cut off $180 million in aid to this leader's
government helped convince him to not steal his last election, in a triumph by ambassador Stephen
Bosworth and envoy Philip Habib. After this man escaped to Hickam Air Force Base in Hawaii, nearly
(*) 3,000 pairs of shoes were found in his wife's closet. The Presidential Commission on Good Government was
set up to retrieve the wealth this leader stole after he was overthrown in the 1986 People Power Revolution and
replaced by Corazon Aquino ("koh-rah-SOHN ah-KEE-noh"). For 10 points, name this husband of Imelda and
kleptocratic dictator of the Philippines.
ANSWER: Ferdinand Marcos [accept Ferdinand Emmanuel Edralin Marcos Sr.]
<Alston, History - World>
6. Saint Zenobius, the first Bishop of Florence, is often pictured with a cart, owing to his performing a
miracle of this type. 2 ("Second") Kings recounts a story where a man put "his eyes on his eyes, and his
hands on his hands" to perform this action on a child who subsequently sneezes seven times. Elisha
performed this action on the son of the woman of Shunem. After healing the bleeding woman, Jesus says,
"Be not afraid, only believe" and performs this action on (*) Jairus' daughter. Another miracle of this sort
follows the healing of a blind man as the last of the seven signs in the Gospel of John and is performed on a
man from Bethany. For 10 points, name this type of miracle that Jesus performed on Lazarus, causing him to
rise from his tomb.
ANSWER: raising someone from the dead [accept resurrection or equivalents]
<Bentley, RMP - Judeo-Christian, Bible>
7. PDB files only contain positions for these substituents if the protein structures were solved using NMR,
not X-ray diffraction. United atom force fields usually coarse-grain over these substituents. Steric clash
between two of these substituents at flagpole positions destabilizes boat conformers. This group is
assigned the lowest possible priority in CIP nomenclature. Primary carbons are bonded to (*) three of
these substituents. The formula "2C plus N plus two" gives the maximum number of them in an organic
molecule. This group makes up the side chain of glycine. These atoms are typically implicit in organic
structures and are represented by white spheres in molecular modelling kits. For 10 points, name these atoms
that weigh one dalton.
ANSWER: hydrogens [or hydrogen atoms; or H; do not accept or prompt on hydride]
<Silverman, Science - Chemistry>
NSC 2019 - Round 05 - Page 2 of 14
8. This novel lends its title to an Ahmed Saadawi book about junk-dealer Hadi set in Baghdad during the
American occupation. A mime named Thomas Potter Cook popularized this novel in a stage adaptation
where he dressed in a blue body stocking. A recent annotated edition of this novel "for scientists" is
introduced by Guillermo del Toro and has an illustration of the (*) Villa Diodati, where the story was
conceived during the "Year Without a Summer" alongside John Polidori's "The Vampyre." The iconic version
of this novel's anti-hero first appeared in a 1931 Boris Karloff film. A humorous take on this novel has Igor
assisting its "young" title character in a Mel Brooks comedy. For 10 points, name this novel about a synthetic
monster by Mary Shelley.
ANSWER: Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus [accept Frankenstein in Baghdad; accept Young
Frankenstein]
<Bentley, Other - Other Academic and General Knowledge>
9. This ruler founded a city where Herophilus soon conducted public dissections at a school he
co-founded with Erasistratus. His architect Dinocates planned a city that replaced Naucratis as a cultural
center. A mispronunciation of "paidion" ("PYE-dee-on") led this man to believe an oracle had called him
"son of god" at Siwa, according to Quintus Curtius Rufus. He had Batis dragged to death after his siege
of Gaza, where he reused engines from a siege of (*) Tyre. Allegedly the son of Zeus-Ammon, he was
declared pharaoh after ending the Achaemenid Empire. This man defeated Darius III at the Battles of Issus and
Gaugamela. For 10 points, name this Macedonian ruler who lent his name to the Ptolemaic capital city, later
home to a legendary library.
ANSWER: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon; accept Alexandros in place of "Alexander"]
<Smith, History - European>
10. In this novel, an artist says he was commissioned to illustrate a chair’s back by depicting a character
that is the combination of the two goddesses Justice and Victory. The protagonist of this novel observes a
text called The Torments Grete Had to Suffer from Her Husband Hans and other weird books while in an
office. This novel's protagonist seeks advice from a now-destitute businessman named Block and the
painter (*) Titorelli. On the day before the protagonist's 31st birthday, two men show up and take him to a
quarry, where they stab and kill him, ending this novel. Its protagonist is served by the lawyer Herr Huld after
he is arrested for an unknown crime. The line "Someone must have been telling lies about Josef K" opens, for
10 points, what novel by Franz Kafka?
ANSWER: The Trial [accept Der Prozess]
<Singh, Literature - European>
11. The virial theorem can be used to show that the time-averaged kinetic and potential energies for these
systems are equal. A crystal made entirely of these systems coupled together has infinite thermal
conductivity and zero thermal expansion. Quantum systems of this type have constant energy level
spacing and have wavefunctions given by a Gaussian term times a (*) Hermite ("air-MEET") polynomial.
Classical systems of this type are described by differential equations in which the second time derivative of the
displacement is proportional to the displacement. If friction is present, these systems can be categorized as
underdamped, overdamped, or critically damped. For 10 points, name these systems which experience a
restoring force proportional to their displacement.
ANSWER: harmonic oscillators [prompt on oscillators; accept simple harmonic oscillators or damped
harmonic oscillators or quantum harmonic oscillators]
<Rosenberg, Science - Physics>
NSC 2019 - Round 05 - Page 3 of 14
12. In one episode of this book, Father Purdon compares himself to a "spiritual accountant." This book
contains a story in which the protagonist wonders if quoting Robert Browning would go over the heads of
his listeners. That story’s climactic scene depicts a woman replying "I think he died for me." This book's
story about the aftermath of Tom Kernan's fall down a flight of stairs is titled (*) "Grace." In another story
from this book, Mr. Bartell D'Arcy’s singing of "The Lass of Aughrim" reminds Gretta of her deceased
childhood lover. This book ends with the image of snow falling on the grave of Michael Furey as Gabriel
Conroy looks out a window. For 10 points, what book by James Joyce contains a story called "The Dead"?
ANSWER: Dubliners
<Mao, Literature - British>
13. The composer of this opera was convinced to write it by Camille Du Locle ("LOH-cluh") after its
commissioner threatened to give Charles Gounod ("goo-NO") or Richard Wagner the job instead. Its
premiere was delayed because the ongoing Franco-Prussian War delayed the shipping of costumes
designed by Auguste Mariette. Mariette also wrote the story that inspired this opera, which was
translated into a libretto by Antonio Ghislanzoni ("ghees-lahn-ZOH-nee") that includes the aria (*) "Ritorna
vincitor" ("ree-TOR-nah VEEN-chee-tour"). This opera's premiere at the Khedivial Opera House used 12 live
elephants for the "triumphal march" in which the protagonist's captive father Amonasro is paraded. For 10
points, name this Giuseppe Verdi opera in which Radames is executed and the title Ethiopian princess dies
alongside him.
ANSWER: Aida
<Alston, Fine Arts - Opera>
14. One leader of these people was known as Buck Watie before taking a new name honoring the second
President of the Confederation Congress. The Red Chief of these people was responsible for selecting the
War Woman, while their White Chief made laws. A member of this tribe named Junaluska stopped a
tomahawk-wielding enemy to save the life of the US commander at Horseshoe Bend. Elias Boudinot's (*)
Phoenix newspaper catered to these people until the discovery of gold near Dahlonega. These people prevailed
in a Supreme Court case against Samuel Austin Worcester ("wooster") but were soon subjected to the Treaty of
New Echota under Andrew Jackson. For 10 points, name this Native American tribe who were forced from
Georgia along the Trail of Tears.
ANSWER: Cherokee [accept Tsalagi; prompt on Native Americans or Indians]
<Bentley, History - American>
15. Two of these people with "architecturally structured, rigorously formed" figures are shown on a pink
road in a series by Ernst Kirchner ("KEERSH-nur") which uses jagged, brightly colored forms to depict
these people in Berlin. One of these people called "The Golden Helmet" is depicted in a painting by Henri
de Toulouse-Lautrec, who created 11 lithographs and over 50 prints depicting them. In response to Henri
Matisse's The Joy of Life, another artist depicted several people with this occupation around a triangular
(*) table with a slice of melon and grapes. That proto-Cubist painting depicts five people with this job, two of
whom have African masks for faces. For 10 points, give this job of the nude women depicted in Picasso's Les
Demoiselles d'Avignon ("luh deh-mwah-ZELL dah-vee-NYON").
ANSWER: prostitutes [accept courtesans or streetwalkers or whores; accept models before "pink road" but
do not accept or prompt after; prompt on women before "this occupation"; do not accept or prompt on "dancer"]
<Alston, Fine Arts - Painting>
NSC 2019 - Round 05 - Page 4 of 14
16. A witness codenamed Dua incorrectly claims that members of this non-governmental organization
have a secret handshake and make up 40% of all overseas US military personnel. In 2018, this
organization reduced a weekly obligation to two hours and made Gerrit W. Gong one of its first
non-Caucasian senior leaders. Although not a member of this organization, the Turkish media has
accused Andrew Brunson of being part of a "gang" of members of this faith. An ex-CIA officer of this
faith founded (*) Stand Up Republic and received 21% of the presidential vote in his home state in 2016. Evan
McMullin is a member of this faith, as is a former Republican presidential nominee elected to the Senate in
2018. For 10 points, name this faith of Utah's Mitt Romney.
ANSWER: Mormon [or the Mormon church; or Elders in the Mormon church; or members of the Church of
Jesus of Latter-Day Saints; or members of the LDS church; prompt on Christian]
<Bentley, Current Events - U.S.>
17. Interdicts placed on individuals engaged in this activity were resolved by the Mixed Commission
Courts set up by Great Britain, the Netherlands, Spain, and Portugal. Engaging in this activity, which
was declared to be a form of piracy by the Webster-Ashburton Treaty, was the main reason that people
visited the island of Gorée ("goh-RAY"). By the terms of the Treaty of Utrecht, Britain was given an
exclusive right, or (*) asiento ("ah-SYEN-toh"), on this activity in the Spanish empire. In 1807, Britain
established a naval squadron to hunt down people engaged in this activity after a law declaring it illegal was
passed thanks to lobbying by William Wilberforce. The Middle Passage was one route of, for 10 points, what
traffic of involuntary servants?
ANSWER: the slave trade [accept answers that refer to selling slaves or transporting slaves across the ocean;
accept African slave trade; prompt on slavery or human trafficking; prompt on Middle Passage before
mentioned]
<Alston, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous>
18. Two answers required. A simile compares one of these characters striking the other to the evening star
passing through a still night sky. In a speech, one of these two characters explains to the other that there
can be no covenants between men and lions because they continually hate each other. One of these two
men recalls an episode in which ships were set on fire while removing the other's armor. (*) Athena
appears as the shade of Deiphobus ("day-FOH-bus") to convince one of these two men to not flee the
"swift-footed" other one. The body of one of these men is properly buried after being ransomed by his father,
following an episode in which the other of them drags that body around behind a chariot. For 10 points, name
these two warriors, a son of Priam and the Greek hero who kills him.
ANSWER: Achilles [or Akhilleus] AND Hector [do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
<Alston, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology>
19. A Bay Area biotech startup named for the city of Memphis commercializes this substance. An
oxygen-carrying protein isolated from Glycine max is brewed in yeast and then added to simulate the
Maillard reaction that occurs when this material is heated. Controversially, this substance is still
produced with FBS to culture myosatellite stem cells inside a scaffold until they form fibers. Sergey Brin
funded a version of this substance which cost 300,000 dollars per (*) pound and is purely synthetic. When
this material is cultured in the lab, it's called "clean" since it reduces carbon emissions. Leghemoglobin is added
to imitate this substance by Impossible Foods to make their products "bleed." For 10 points, name this
substance whose taste is approximated using soy protein.
ANSWER: cultured meat [or plant-based meat; or similar answers; or fake meat or similar answers; or beef; or
chicken; or any other specific kind of meat; accept the Impossible burger or more specific answers that are
meats; prompt on muscle tissue; do not accept or prompt on "fish"]
<Silverman, Science - Engineering and Miscellaneous>
NSC 2019 - Round 05 - Page 5 of 14
20. A poet with this surname is known for "no title" poems, such as one about a fifty-stringed instrument.
Another poet with this surname was said to have written mostly on horseback, and was excluded from an
anthology titled Three Hundred Poems of a certain time period. A translation of another writer of this
surname laments "at sixteen you departed, you went ... by the river of swirling eddies"; the image of frost
on the ground appears in his "Quiet (*) Night Thought." "The River Merchant's Wife: A Letter" is an
adaptation of that writer with this surname, who proclaimed that he, his shadow, and the title heavenly body
make them "three men" in "Drinking Alone by Moonlight." For 10 points, a Chinese poet named "Bai" or "Po"
had what surname?
ANSWER: Li [accept Li Shangyin, Li Shangyin, Li Bai, or Li Po; accept "Three Lis"; accept RiHaku]
<Smith, Literature - World and Miscellaneous>
1. An event in which a gene's function on one chromosome disappears is known as the loss of this phenomenon.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this property of a locus containing two different alleles for a gene. It is typically notated with one
uppercase and one lowercase letter for that gene.
ANSWER: heterozygous [accept word forms like heterozygosity]
[10] Loss of heterozygosity is most frequently cited as a cause of this disease. Knudson's ("kuh-NOOD-son'z")
hypothesis posits that this disease often occurs with loss of heterozygosity, followed by a point mutation in
genes like Rb.
ANSWER: cancer [or any specific types of cancer; or retinoblastoma]
[10] The two-hits in Knudson's hypothesis are mutations in these two classes of genes. When one of them
mutates, cells stop undergoing apoptosis, while the other tends to promote apoptosis.
ANSWER: proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes [accept proto-oncogenes and antioncogenes; do
not accept or prompt on just "oncogene"]
<Silverman, Science - Biology>
2. Stanislaw Sosabowski ("soh-sah-BOV-skee") was blamed for the failure of an operation in this country after he
didn't parachute his forces into battle due to heavy fog. For ten points each:
[10] Name this country, the site of the failed Operation Market Garden, which aimed to capture nine bridges
that would be used for an Allied invasion of Germany.
ANSWER: The Netherlands [accept Nederlands; prompt on Holland]
[10] In 1940, the Netherlands was invaded by Germany on the same day as this neighboring country, the site of
the Ardennes Forest.
ANSWER: Belgium [accept Kingdom of Belgium or Royaume de Belgique or Königreich Belgien or
Koninkrijk België]
[10] The Netherlands was ruled by this monarch during both World Wars. This monarch reportedly told Kaiser
Wilhelm II that Dutch dikes were 10 feet high after the Kaiser bragged about his seven foot tall soldiers.
ANSWER: Queen Wilhelmina [accept Wilhelmina Helena Pauline Maria]
<Singh, History - European>
NSC 2019 - Round 05 - Page 7 of 14
3. For 10 points each, answer the following about authors who assumed fictional personas in their writings.
[10] This author created several fake identities to create his works, such as Mensagem. His translator, Richard
Zenith, claims he once trolled a dinner party by showing up as his heteronym Ricardo Reis, and insisting his
creator had died.
ANSWER: Fernando Pessoa [or Fernando António Nogueira Pessoa]
[10] This author assumed the identity of "Vivian Darkbloom" to write a preface to his novel in which Humbert
Humbert sexually abuses the title girl, Lolita.
ANSWER: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov; prompt on Vladimir Sirin]
[10] A fictional version of this French author is suggested to have created "that great scroll" on which
everything is written, which appears in his novel Jacques the Fatalist.
ANSWER: Denis Diderot
<Jose, Literature - European>
4. One of the earliest of the spiels or plays written for this holiday was composed in Yiddish by Gumprecht of
Szczebrzeszyn ("stub-zesch-shen"). For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Jewish holiday where children also dress up as characters from the megillah. The Book of
Esther is read during this holiday.
ANSWER: Purim [accept Festival of Lots]
[10] Another Purim tradition is to hiss and shake rattles when the name of this villain of the Book of Esther is
mentioned.
ANSWER: Haman [accept Haman the Agagite or Haman the evil]
[10] In Mantua, Esther Plays were sometimes performed before Christian audiences. The Gonzaga court
commissioned a Jewish troupe to re-enact this figure's saving of the city of Bethulia, related in a namesake
deuterocanonical book of the Bible.
ANSWER: Judith [accept Yehudit; accept Book of Judith]
<Bentley, RMP - Judeo-Christian, Bible>
5. The artist Ugo da Carpi attempted to patent a process for applying this technique to printmaking. For 10
points each:
[10] Give this art term that comes from the Italian words for "light" and "shadow." A Baroque Italian artist used
it for his paintings of The Supper at Emmaus ("eh-MAY-us").
ANSWER: chiaroscuro ("KYAH-roh-SKOO-roh")
[10] This Italian artist, a notorious brawler and criminal, used chiaroscuro in those versions of The Supper at
Emmaus, as well as in his The Calling of Saint Matthew.
ANSWER: Caravaggio [accept Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio]
[10] Another master of the chiaroscuro print, Andrea Andreani ("ahn-dray-AH-nee"), produced a 12-foot-wide
print of this artist's nine-panel series The Triumphs of Caesar. This artist also made several works for the Ducal
Palace in Mantua.
ANSWER: Andrea Mantegna ("man-TAIN-yah")
<Bentley, Fine Arts - Painting>
NSC 2019 - Round 05 - Page 8 of 14
6. These two characters got their name from a poem by John Byrom, which satirized the rivalry of G.F. Handel
and Giovanni Bononcini. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these oafish identical characters who act out a nursery rhyme where they agree to have a battle over
the fact that one spoiled the other's rattle.
ANSWER: Tweedledum AND Tweedledee [accept answers in either order]
[10] Tweedledum and Tweedledee appear in this novel by Lewis Carroll. The dramatis personae in early
editions of this novel claims Tweedledum and Tweedledee are the White King and Queen's rooks.
ANSWER: Through the Looking Glass, and What Alice Found There
[10] This illustrator worked with Carroll to produce images of Tweedledum and Tweedledee; he also created
engraved images for Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.
ANSWER: John Tenniel
<Dees, Literature - British>
7. This man, Ronald Graham, and Oren Patashnik wrote the textbook Concrete Mathematics. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this author, who wrote a multi-volume textbook that extensively uses the MIX language to present
its algorithms, The Art of Computer Programming.
ANSWER: Donald Knuth
[10] Knuth introduced this typesetting program, which is often used to author papers featuring mathematical
equations. Leslie Lamport made a namesake extension to this program that is more user-friendly.
ANSWER: Tex (“tekk”) [accept answers that sound like “TEX”; accept LaTex (“Lay-tek”) or answers that
sound like “latex”]
[10] Donald Knuth, Vaughan Pratt, and James Morris name an algorithm that efficiently performs this task.
ANSWER: string searching [accept answers indicating searching within text or searching within strings or
string matching or finding a substring]
<Jose, Science - Computer Science>
8. Identify the following about some of California's iconic roads, for 10 points each:
[10] The scenic Pacific Coast Highway passes through Point Mugu State Park in this county northwest of Los
Angeles County. This county shares its name with a shop-lined boulevard in the San Fernando Valley filled
with vampires in Tom Petty's "Free Fallin.'"
ANSWER: Ventura County [accept Ventura Boulevard]
[10] This California city's storied cable cars bring passengers to the top of Lombard Street, often called the
"crookedest street in America."
ANSWER: San Francisco
[10] The 28-mile-long Silverado Trail in this region is renowned for its beauty. A castle imported brick by brick
from Italy, Castello di Amorosa, is at one of the several wineries in this region.
ANSWER: Napa Valley [or Napa County]
<Jose, Geography - United States>
NSC 2019 - Round 05 - Page 9 of 14
9. These objects replaced a pair of silver ones from L. Frank Baum's original novel and were used to show off
the Technicolor process. For 10 points each:
[10] Give both the color and type of clothing of these objects. In The Wizard of Oz they are worn by Dorothy,
who taps them together to return to Kansas.
ANSWER: red shoes [accept slippers in place of "shoes"; accept ruby in place of "red"]
[10] These two British men directed and produced a 1948 adaptation of a Hans Christian Andersen story titled
The Red Shoes. Their other films include Black Narcissus.
ANSWER: Michael Powell AND Emeric Pressburger [accept Powell & Pressburger; accept The Archers]
[10] Jodie Foster wore a pair of red wedges in her portrayal of the teenager Iris in this film. In one of its iconic
scenes, Robert de Niro's character looks into a mirror and asks "You talkin' to me?"
ANSWER: Taxi Driver (by Martin Scorsese.)
<Alston, Fine Arts - Film>
10. In 1607 there were only 550 European men living here, and its main port had silted over. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this modern-day country where Spanish treasure was hauled overland. Vasco Núñez de Balboa
crossed its namesake isthmus to spot the Pacific Ocean.
ANSWER: Panama [or Republic of Panama]
[10] Some of the only formal institutions in Panama were five of these establishments, which dominated the
economy of colonial Lima. Donadas tended to be people of high social class who lived in these places.
ANSWER: convents [or nunnery; prompt on monastery or abbey or priory]
[10] For the most part, Panama did not develop this system of drawing tribute from native populations which
was popular in the rest of Spanish America before the passage of the New Laws.
ANSWER: encomienda
<Bentley, History - World>
11. In this author's novel Here I Am, an earthquake sets the stage for an Arab invasion of Israel. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this contemporary author. He documented a fictional version of himself traveling to Ukraine in his
debut novel, Everything Is Illuminated.
ANSWER: Jonathan Safran Foer
[10] Foer's novel Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close is narrated by a boy named Oskar, whose father was killed
in this year. Amy Waldman's novel The Submission concerns a Muslim architect who wins a contest to design a
memorial for an incident in this year.
ANSWER: 2001
[10] This man responded to the 9/11 attacks with the comic In the Shadow of No Towers. His graphic novel
about the Holocaust, Maus, won the Pulitzer Prize in 1992.
ANSWER: Art Spiegelman [or Itzhak Avraham ben Zeev]
<Bentley, Literature - American>
NSC 2019 - Round 05 - Page 10 of 14
12. Identify the following about pioneering African American prosecutor Eunice Carter, for 10 points each.
[10] Carter worked closely with Thomas E. Dewey when Dewey was still a Manhattan special prosecutor.
Dewey would later be defeated by this man in the close presidential election of 1948.
ANSWER: Harry S. Truman
[10] Carter helped prosecute this mobster, an early associate of Meyer Lansky who was the first head of the
Genovese family. He later supposedly helped in the Allied invasion of Sicily.
ANSWER: Lucky Luciano [or Charles Luciano; or Salvatore Lucania; or Charlie Luciano]
[10] Carter was appointed to the Committee on Conditions in Harlem by this mayor who presided over the 1939
New York World's Fair and once destroyed a pinball machine with a sledgehammer.
ANSWER: Fiorello LaGuardia [or Fiorello Henry La Guardia; or Fiorello Enrico La Guardia]
<Bentley, History - American>
13. The principal axes of rotation are the unit eigenvectors of this construct. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this construct. Multiplying the angular velocity vector by this construct transforms it to the angular
momentum vector.
ANSWER: moment of inertia tensor [or moment of inertia matrix, prompt on moment of inertia]
[10] The inertia tensor is a matrix representation of the moment of inertia, which is the rotational analog of this
quantity. Its SI unit is the kilogram.
ANSWER: mass
[10] The inertia tensor is a valid representation when considering the dynamics of bodies with this property,
meaning that they are not deformed when subject to a force. Euler names a set of equations that describe the
rotations of bodies with this property.
ANSWER: rigidity [accept rigid bodies]
<French, Science - Physics>
14. This character gives millet dumplings to a dog, a pheasant, and a monkey to secure their assistance in
assaulting bands of oni that were terrorizing the countryside. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this folk hero who grew into a warrior after an elderly couple found him inside a giant peach that fell
from the sky.
ANSWER: Momotaro
[10] The peach that fell from heaven originally landed in one of these geographical features. Five of them,
including the Acheron ("AK-er-on") and the Lethe ("LEE-thee"), encircled the underworld in Greek myth.
ANSWER: rivers [prompt on waterways; do not accept or prompt on "ocean(s)" or "lake(s)"]
[10] In Japanese folklore, rivers were also home to these amphibious yokai who carry water in a depression on
their heads. They are fond of wrestling and cucumbers.
ANSWER: kappa
<Jose, RMP - World Mythology>
NSC 2019 - Round 05 - Page 11 of 14
15. The first one of these procedures was run by the World War I psychologist W. H. R. Rivers, who was
studying the effects of caffeine on patients. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this kind of experiment in which both the researcher and the participant are unaware of certain
parameters that govern it.
ANSWER: double-blind experiment [prompt on blind-experiment]
[10] A double-blind experiment will often use a drug candidate and this kind of dummy drug, which has no
biological effects. However, there may still be a psychological effect from taking one of these.
ANSWER: placebo [accept placebo effect]
[10] A researcher may run a double-blind experiment to eliminate bias and thus remove the "confounding" or
"lurking" type of these things.
ANSWER: variables [or independent variables or dependent variables or lurking variables or confounding
variables]
<Jose, Social Science - Psychology>
16. A character in this story becomes close with a pet monkey when she saves the monkey from being whipped
for stealing a tangerine. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this story, in which a lord burns alive the daughter of a painter so that the painter can complete his
masterpiece, the title artwork.
ANSWER: "Hell Screen" [accept "Jigokuhen"]
[10] "Hell Screen" is by this Japanese author, whose other short stories include "In a Grove" and "Rashōmon."
ANSWER: Ryūnosuke Akutagawa [accept in either order]
[10] Akutagawa's other works include "A Report on a Journey" to this city that he visited. J. G. Ballard's time
growing up in this city under the Japanese occupation inspired the autobiographical Empire of the Sun.
ANSWER: Shanghai
<Morrison, Literature - World and Miscellaneous>
17. Many objects move as a result of radiation pressure. For 10 points each:
[10] The tails of these "dirty snowballs" are caused by the radiation pressure of starlight imparting kinetic
energy to its icy surface.
ANSWER: comets
[10] This bizarre decrease in an object's velocity was caused by anisotropic radiation pressure as a certain
spacecraft made it further and further away from the Solar System. It was called an anomaly since it could not
originally be explained.
ANSWER: Pioneer anomaly [or Pioneer effect]
[10] These theoretical objects would move via large mirrors collecting photons that exert a radiation pressure on
the vehicle. In 1976 the Jet Propulsion Laboratory proposed building this kind of vehicle to rendezvous with
Halley's Comet.
ANSWER: solar sails [accept light sails or photon sails]
<Jose, Science - Astronomy>
NSC 2019 - Round 05 - Page 12 of 14
18. In this program, children who were "racially pure" were abducted and given to "Aryan" families to be
raised. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the German name of this Nazi program, many of whose records were destroyed before the end of the
war. It means "Fount of Life."
ANSWER: Lebensborn
[10] During this country's Dirty War, children were secretly taken by the state and raised by families that
supported the right-wing dictatorship of Jorge Videla.
ANSWER: Argentina [or Argentine Republic]
[10] Large numbers of children from this ethnic group were abducted after massacres carried out by forces loyal
to Efraín Ríos Montt in Guatemala. Rigoberta Menchú, a member of this indigenous group, won the Nobel
Peace Prize in 1992.
ANSWER: Maya [accept K'iche' Maya; prompt on indigenous peoples or Native Americans or Indians]
<Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous>
19. A 1973 manifesto named for this movement asserts "No deity will save us; we must save ourselves," and
critiques the optimism that paved the way to World War II. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this movement. It once referred to Renaissance philosophies that put man at the center of the world.
ANSWER: humanism [accept humanist or Humanist Manifesto]
[10] This philosopher asserted that "existentialism is a humanism" in one of his works. His book Being and
Nothingness discusses a form of self-deception he termed "bad faith."
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre [or Jean-Paul Charles Aymard Sartre]
[10] This other philosopher distanced himself from existentialism in a reply to Jean-Paul Sartre that was
published as his Letter on Humanism. His other works include an analysis of Friedrich Holderlin's poem The
Ister.
ANSWER: Martin Heidegger
<Jose, RMP - Philosophy>
20. This composer preferred to be called a "phonometrician" rather than a composer. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French composer of three short, atmospheric piano pieces whose name evokes ancient Greek
exercises in the nude.
ANSWER: Erik Satie [or Éric Alfred Leslie Satie; accept Virginie Lebeau or François de Paule] (The pieces
are titled Gymnopédies.)
[10] Satie was a key influence on a group of this many French composers that included Darius Milhaud
("mee-YO"). The ordinal form of this number designates the interval from C to A on a piano.
ANSWER: six [accept Les Six or sixth]
[10] Satie's Gymnopedies, as well as his "furniture music," are key influences on this genre of slow, repetitive
music intended to generate an "unobtrusive" sense of calm. This sort of music titles a Brian Eno album meant to
be looped as "music for airports."
ANSWER: ambient music [prompt on background music; do not accept or prompt on "elevator music"]
<Smith, Fine Arts - Music>