 Silhouettes of one of these objects, as well as of a bird, a key, and a chalice, appear on the chest of a
headless man in the painting The Liberator. A large one of these objects is next to a depiction of one of
them on an easel in the painting The Two Mysteries. Yet another painting of one of these objects is at the
Los Angeles County Museum of Art, was described by Michel Foucault as an "unraveled calligram," and
was first exhibited under the title The Use of (*) Speech I ("one"). The question "could you stuff [one of these
objects]" was asked by a Surrealist artist in response to a message he wrote in French below one of them. For 10
points, the message in the painting The Treachery of Images by Rene Magritte claims it does not depict what
object?
ANSWER: pipes [accept tobacco pipe or smoking pipe or an image of a pipe; accept "Ceci n'est pas un pipe"
or "This is not a pipe"]
<Bentley, Fine Arts - Painting>
2. The Czech startup LEO hopes to benefit from a new "fourth package" from the European
Commission that will liberalize this industry, which China plans to expand from "four-by-four" to
"eight-by-eight" by 2035. The largest infrastructure project in Kenya's history was a China-backed SGR
project in this industry that boosted Kenya's GDP by 1.5%. A minister who oversaw this industry, Liu
Zhijun ("lyoo zhee-joon"), was sentenced to death for a 2011 incident in Wenzhou ("wun-joe") where 40 (*)
people died. Creating a "Eurasian land bridge" for this industry has run into challenges due to different gauge
sizes between China and Russia. Japan's Shinkansen is an example of, for 10 points, what industry that provides
"bullet" ground links between cities such as Tianjin and Beijing?
ANSWER: railroads [accept railways; accept high-speed rail or bullet trains or commuter rail; prompt on
transportation industry]
<Alston, Current Events - World>
3. This unnamed conflict's origins are the subject of a book by the scholars Edgar Branch and Robert
Hirst. A character in this conflict asks the narrator a riddle about where Moses was when a candle went
out. One side in this conflict lives in a home in which the tacky poem "Ode to Stephen Dowling Bots"
hangs from its walls. This conflict climaxes after the narrator retrieves a Bible with the message "HALF
(*) PAST TWO" written in it. The participants in this conflict listen to a church sermon about "brotherly-love"
while keeping their guns between their knees. In this conflict, a "colonel" and his sons are killed after young
Sophia elopes with Harney. For 10 points, what deadly feud between two Kentuckian families is depicted in
Huckleberry Finn?
ANSWER: the feud between the Grangerfords and the Shepherdsons [accept any synonym for feud that
mentions the two families; prompt on answers that do not mention the two families, such as the feud in
Huckleberry Finn]
<Jose, Literature - American>
NSC 2019 - Round 03 - Page 1 of 13
4. A form of this technique that works on objects for which the well-founded relation holds is named for
Emmy Noether. Augustin-Louis Cauchy used both the standard "forward" form of this technique and its
alternative "backwards" form to prove the AM-GM inequality. This technique, which relies on the last of
the Peano axioms to hold, is often used to show that "n times quantity n plus 1 all divided by 2" is a
formula for the (*) positive natural numbers. In this technique, one assumes that some statement is true for
some input n, and shows that it is also true for n + 1 after having proved a base case. For 10 points, name this
proof technique which shares its name with a type of logic that goes from the specific to the general.
ANSWER: proof by induction [accept mathematical induction or inductive proof; prompt on proof]
<Jose, Science - Math>
5. This man lost his highest post after a sermon by Anton Fister galvanized protesters who formed a
6,000-strong Academic Legion. This man published a pamphlet urging for defense against potential
French attacks using the pseudonym "A Friend of Universal Peace," and he once remarked that Italy
was "a geographical expression." In response to the murder of playwright August von Kotzebue
("KOT-zuh-boo"), this man ordered the closure of student Burschenschaften ("BOOR-sen-shoft-en") in the (*)
Carlsbad Degrees. This foreign minister's negotiations with Talleyrand at a conference discussing the
organization of post-Napoleonic Europe established the Concert of Europe. For 10 points, name this
conservative statesman who represented Austria at the Congress of Vienna.
ANSWER: Klemens von Metternich [or Klemens Wenzel Nepomuk Lothar, Prince von
Metternich-Winneburg zu Beilstein]
<Husar, History - European>
6. In a backstory, a character with this profession entertained a general even though the general was
responsible for the death of his son Leonard in the Boer War. At the conclusion of a novel, a character in
this profession hopes to "pleasantly surprise his boss" after he cries while viewing lights at a pier in
Weymouth. A man with this profession is forced to fire two Jewish women in his employ after his boss
starts hosting meetings attended by "Herr (*) Ribbentrop." An American named Mr. Farraday employs a
man of this profession in a 1989 novel that consists of the protagonist's recollection of his former employer, a
Nazi-sympathizer named Lord Darlington. For 10 points, Mr. Stevens has what profession in Kazuo Ishiguro's
novel The Remains of the Day?
ANSWER: butlers [accept valets before "pleasantly"; prompt on house servant; prompt on house manager]
<Jose, Literature - British>
7. Though this curve itself is not drawn in an Edgeworth Box, its points are isoquants where the marginal
rates of technical substitution of participants in an Edgeworth Box are equal, since those points are also
all on the contract curve. This curve's slope defines the marginal rate of transformation. This curve is
typically concave to the origin, but the existence of economies of scale can cause it to instead bend
inwards due to decreasing (*) opportunity costs. Points inside this curve are not at full employment, while
points outside it are unattainable for a firm or economy. A classic example of this curve uses guns and butter to
illustrate tradeoffs. For 10 points, name this "frontier" that shows configurations of different potential outputs.
ANSWER: production possibilities frontier [accept production-possibility frontier or production
possibilities curve; accept PPF or PPC]
<Qian, Social Science - Economics>
NSC 2019 - Round 03 - Page 2 of 13
8. This person gave a sermon about a man who is hit by a poisoned arrow, but cares more about the man
who shot it than finding a surgeon. Another of this person's sermons occasioned a "ten-thousand-fold
world-element" to burst forth from the heavens and allowed a king to become the first "stream-enterer."
He helped a follower understand formlessness simply by holding up a (*) flower, a story exemplifying the
"perfection of wisdom" genre of his teachings. This deliverer of the Flower Sermon gave his first sermon at the
Deer Park in Sarnath, where he stated that eliminating craving, desire, and attachment would lead to moksha
and the end of suffering. For 10 points, name this man who preached the Four Noble Truths of his namesake
religion.
ANSWER: The Buddha [accept Siddhartha Gautama or Siddhartha Gautama or Shakyamuni]
<Alston, RMP - Other Religion>
9. In 1950, a computer scientist at the RAND Institute used this adjective to describe his research to hide
its mathematical nature from politicians. This adjective describes an approach to algorithm design that
solves "overlapping subproblems"; the CYK parsing algorithm is an example of it. Amortized analysis is
used to study arrays described by this adjective; those arrays have individual elements need to be copied
over when they are resized, in contrast to (*) fixed-length arrays. Memory that is put onto the heap is
allocated in this fashion, often using the C functions "malloc" and "free." This adjective describes a type of
random access memory that is volatile, and it puts the D in DRAM ("dee-RAM"). For 10 points, give this opposite
of "static."
ANSWER: dynamic [accept dynamic programming or dynamically allocated memory or dynamic Random
Access Memory]
<Jose, Science - Computer Science>
10. This author of the anti-Catholic screed "Conspiracy Against the Liberties of the United States" was
the Know Nothing candidate for Mayor of New York in 1836. This man was installed into the Order of
Glory by Sultan Abdulmejid I after demonstrating his best-known invention. Chemistry professor
Leonard Gale helped this failed painter realize his best-known invention, the idea of which he discussed
on a ship back to the U.S. with Charles Jackson. This man's Magnetic Company eventually merged with
(*) Western Union and was built on technology that first connected Baltimore and Washington, D.C. with the
phrase, "What hath God wrought." For 10 points, name this inventor of a coding system for telegraph messages.
ANSWER: Samuel Morse [or Samuel Finley Breese Morse]
<Bentley, History - American>
11. Chester Nathan Gould compiled a list of the names of these figures and their etymologies in a study of
"Old Icelandic Religion." A passage in the Völuspa claims that these beings arose from "Brimir's blood"
and "Blainn's limbs." Two of these figures dropped a millstone on a widow's head after drowning her
husband Gilling; those two owned Son and Bodn, a pair of vats in which they mixed honey with the
remains of the god Kvasir. Scholars sometimes identify the (*) svartalfar with these beings, two of whom
named Fjalar and Galar made the mead of poetry. Another group of these figures, the Sons of Ivaldi, created
Sif's hair and Odin's spear Gungnir. For 10 points, name these characters from Norse myth, a race of diminutive
smiths.
ANSWER: dwarfs [accept dwarves or dvergr or dvergar; prompt on svartalfar before "svartalfar"]
<Jose, RMP - World Mythology>
NSC 2019 - Round 03 - Page 3 of 13
12. Microbubbles are mainly used in drug delivery to treat diseases of this organ. A controversial
February 2019 Nature Microbiology paper suggested that dysfunction of this organ is linked to depletion
of species of Coprococcus. An aggressive tumor in this organ presents with a butterfly appearance and
can be slowed using alternating electric field therapy. New treatments for diseases of this organ may
focus on drugging the gut bacteria that form an axis with it. (*) Valproic acid and fluoxetine treat diseases
of this organ, such as one known to be correlated with high monoamine oxidase activity. A barrier layer of
astrocytes makes this organ notoriously difficult to drug. For 10 points, name this organ affected by
glioblastomas and depression.
ANSWER: brain [accept corpus callosum; accept cerebrum; or cerebral cortex; do not accept or prompt on
“cortex”]
<Silverman, Science - Biology>
13. Jack Weatherford credits this empire's success to a "culture of meritocracy" in his book on its
founder's role in "making the modern world." This empire created a official seal whose carriers could
freely use postal routes and demand goods from civilians, called a paiza ("PIE-zah"). Its law code declared
"all religions were to be respected" and Nestorian Christians were found at its court. This empire, which
built the (*) yam road system, was the largest to select a ruler through a great council called a kuriltai
("KOO-ril-tye"). After the Toluid Civil War was started by this empire's prince Ariq Böke ("AH-rik BOE-kuh"), it
fractured into four realms which included the realm of Chagatai ("CHAH-gah-tye"), the Ilkhanate ("ILL-kuh-nate"),
and the Yuan dynasty. For 10 points, name this empire founded by Genghis Khan.
ANSWER: Mongol Empire [accept Monggol Uls] (Weatherford's book is titled Genghis Khan and the Making
of the Modern World.)
<Alston, History - World>
14. In a jam session with "Biddy" Fleet, this musician discovered he could use all 12 semitones of the
chromatic scale to lead into any key, which influenced his greater use of often rapid passing tones. This
musician authorized Aebersold and Slone to transcribe his music for his namesake Omnibook. A series of
ii-V progressions characterize a variation on twelve-bar blues that is sometimes named for this
musician's "Blues for Alice." A (*) club on New York's 52nd Street was named his "land." This musician
contra-facted Ray Noble's "Cherokee" into his song "Ko-Ko," which exemplifies a fast, upbeat jazz genre he
pioneered alongside Dizzy Gillespie. For 10 points, name this bebop saxophonist of "Ornithology," who was
nicknamed for his love of chicken.
ANSWER: Charlie Parker [accept Charles Parker Jr.; accept Bird or Yardbird or Birdland]
<Smith, Fine Arts - Jazz>
15. A novel titled for this stuff ends with the dying protagonist promising to meet his friend "beneath the
falls." In another novel titled for this stuff, the Milky Way "[flows] down inside" the protagonist "with a
roar" shortly after flames consume a woman whom he'd earlier spied on a train caring for a
tuberculosis-stricken man. This stuff titles a novel centering on Satoko's affair with Kiyoaki, and which
was followed up with Runaway Horses as the first entry in the (*) Sea of Fertility tetralogy. A novel titled
for this stuff begins "The train came out of the long tunnel" as an expert on Western ballet travels to a remote
hot spring. For 10 points, Shimamura's affair with the geisha Komako is depicted in a Yasunari Kawabata novel
titled for a "country" of what cold stuff?
ANSWER: snow [accept Spring Snow or Snow Country; accept yuki]
<Keyal, Literature - World and Miscellaneous>
NSC 2019 - Round 03 - Page 4 of 13
16. One of these instruments from India is tuned by applying syahi paste and has a wooden variety called
the dayan, whose counterpart is the metal bayan. Japanese players of another of these instruments,
exemplified by the Kodo group, traditionally only wear a fundoshi loincloth during furious public
performances. An Arabic instrument called the naker evolved into the most common example of these
instruments in Western orchestras, which is tuned using a sliding (*) foot pedal and has a body that is
usually made of copper. Asian examples of these instruments include the goblet-shaped darbouka, the Japanese
taiko, and the Indian tabla. For 10 points, name these percussion instruments, conventional "kettle" types of
which include the timpani.
ANSWER: drums [accept kettle drums or goblet drums; accept timpani or tabla or taiko; prompt on
percussion]
<Alston, Fine Arts - Music>
17. A character in this play recalls seeing peasants stretched out "side-by-side" during a typhoid
epidemic during the third week of Lent. This play's title character exclaims that a man, whom he once
thought was a "being of a higher order," was actually just a writer who "writes about art" even though
"he understands nothing about art." It concludes with a speech thrice proclaiming "We must rest . . ." as
the landowner (*) Waffles plays the guitar. After a professor wishes to invest in "interest-bearing bonds" so
that he and his wife Yelena can afford a dacha villa in Finland, the title character tries to shoot him, but
repeatedly misses. Professor Serebryakov is supported by Voynitsky, the title character of, for 10 points, what
drama by Anton Chekhov?
ANSWER: Uncle Vanya [accept Dyadya Vanya]
<Jose, Literature - European>
18. This physicist introduced the concept of "whispering gallery waves" to explain echoes that could be
heard from across the room at St Paul's Cathedral. This physicist used a quasi-static approximation for
the electric field near a radiating dipole much smaller than the wavelength of light to demonstrate that
the intensity of light re-radiated by that dipole is proportional to the negative (*) fourth power of
wavelength. The resolution of an imaging system is limited by his namesake "criterion," and his approximation
to Mie scattering explains why sunlight traveling through lots of air at sunset appears red when it reaches our
eyes. For 10 points, name this British physicist whose namesake form of scattering explains why the daytime
sky is blue.
ANSWER: Lord Rayleigh ("RAY-lee") [accept either underlined portion of John William Strutt, 3rd Baron
Rayleigh]
<Rosenberg, Science - Physics>
19. Pierre Benton argued that Canada's "last good year" was during this decade. In the first year of this
decade, First Nations people were given the right to vote in Canadian elections without sacrificing their
treaty status. The Red Ensign was replaced with the Maple Leaf flag in this decade. Jean Lesage's
election as premier in the first year of this decade began the Quiet Revolution in Quebec. Bomarc missiles
were delivered to Canada during this decade, with the resulting controversy contributing to (*) John
Diefenbaker's electoral defeat to Lester Pearson. Pierre Trudeau was first elected as Prime Minister in this
decade. For 10 points, name this decade in which Pearson gave a speech criticizing Lyndon Johnson's bombing
of North Vietnam.
ANSWER: 1960s
<Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous>
NSC 2019 - Round 03 - Page 5 of 13
20. This philosopher quoted the jurist William Barclay, who argued against the Monarchomachs, in a
chapter discussing when the "dissolution of government" should be sought. A work by this philosopher
refutes the claim that kings derived their authority from the Biblical Adam and dismisses the "glib
nonsense" found in the English of Robert Filmer's treatise Patriarcha. He used the example of humans
picking (*) "apples from the trees" to illustrate his belief that ownership comes from one's own labor. A book
by this philosopher discussing the "true origin" and "extent" of "civil government" claims that all men are
entitled to "life," "liberty," and "property." For 10 points, name this philosopher who wrote Two Treatises of
Government.
ANSWER: John Locke
<Jose, RMP - Philosophy>
1. A contemporary critic called this building "a monumental political argument". For 10 points each:
[10] Name this highlight of the Universal Exposition which was saved from destruction after it was put to use
broadcasting radio signals.
ANSWER: Eiffel Tower
[10] A replica of this building was constructed for the Universal Exposition. The storming of this prison fort in
1789 is the symbolic start of the French Revolution.
ANSWER: The Bastille [or Bastille Saint-Antoine]
[10] One of the main attractions of the Universal Exposition was one of these devices contained within a 60
meter steel tube. A large one of these devices in Wisconsin is in a building named for Charles Yerkes and was
built on behalf of George Ellery Hale.
ANSWER: refracting telescope [prompt on observatory]
<Bentley, History - European>
2. The circular form of this property requires the perpendicular components of the fields to be equal in
magnitude and 90 degrees out of phase. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this property of electromagnetic waves which describes the orientations of the electric and magnetic
fields in space. It also comes in linear and elliptical types.
ANSWER: polarization
[10] A linearly polarized wave can be converted to a circularly polarized one or vice versa using one of these
devices, which induce a 90-degree phase difference to passing waves.
ANSWER: quarter-wave plate [prompt on wave plate or retarder]
[10] The anisotropic materials used in quarter-wave plates are said to have this property, meaning they refract
light differently depending on the direction of the light.
ANSWER: birefringent [or birefringence]
<Rosenberg, Science - Physics>
3. A gate in this city called the "Buland Darwaza" was built to celebrate its founder's conquest of Gujarat. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this city that once housed a building for religious disputation called the "Ibadat Khana." The Panch
Mahal complex in this city are the remains of a large palace.
ANSWER: Fatehpur Sikri ("FAH-tay-poor SICK-ree")
[10] Fatehpur Sikri was built by this Mughal emperor. This ruler chose to rebuild its tomb of the Sufi Salim
Chisti in thanks for the birth of his son.
ANSWER: Akbar the Great [accept Jalaluddin Muhammad Akbar, or Jalaluddin Muhammad the Great; or
Abu'l-Fath Jalal-ud-din Muhammad Akbar; or Akbar I; or Akbar-i-azam]
[10] Akbar commissioned a tomb for his father Humayun which contains a large charbagh garden system and is
near this city's Purana Qila or Old Fort. A rust-resistant Iron Pillar is located near this city's Qutub Minar.
ANSWER: Delhi [do not accept or prompt on "New Delhi"]
<Dees, Fine Arts - Architecture>
NSC 2019 - Round 03 - Page 7 of 13
4. The man who "discovered" this place found an inscription reading "Lizarraga 1902" indicating someone else
had visited it 10 years before he did. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this archaeological site in the Urubamba River Valley. The stone walls at this site were constructed
without mortar.
ANSWER: Machu Picchu
[10] Machu Picchu is located in the mountains of this country, also home to the Inca capital of Cuzco.
ANSWER: Peru [accept Republic of Peru]
[10] Chan Chan, the largest Pre-Columbian city in South America, resides in a valley named for these people,
the predecessor of the Chimu. One can visit the large Huaca del Sol and Huaca de la Luna erected by these
people, noted for their erotic pottery.
ANSWER: Moche [prompt on Pre-Chimu or Early Chimu or Proto Chimu]
<Bentley, Geography - World>
5. The title birds sing, "Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!" in this author's poem "The Pelican's Chorus." For 10
points each:
[10] Name this author of the collection Nonsense Songs, Stories, Botany and Alphabets. The two title characters
of one of his poems encounter a Piggy-wig "with a ring at the end of his nose."
ANSWER: Edward Lear
[10] Edward Lear wrote several poems using this five-line format. These bawdy poems are possibly named for
an Irish city, and often begin with a structure similar to "There once was a man from Decatur . . ."
ANSWER: limericks
[10] After being married "by the Turkey who lives on the hill," the Owl and the Pussycat dine on "mince, and
slices of quince" with a spoon described by this word. Edward Lear used this nonsense adjective in many of his
poems.
ANSWER: runcible
<Bentley, Literature - British>
6. Two teams that played the hip-based version of this game were brought back to Spain by Hernan Cortes to
demonstrate it to Charles V. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the common English name of this game prevalent throughout Mesoamerica. The Aztecs imported
large quantities of rubber to create equipment used in this game.
ANSWER: Mesoamerican ball game
[10] Murals in this city demonstrate a version of the ball game played with sticks. The Avenue of the Dead
connects most of the great pyramids in this city, which collapsed some time in the 1st millennium CE.
ANSWER: Teotihuacan ("tay-oh-tee-WAH-kan")
[10] Seventh century CE rulers of this city adopted the title of "ball player" when they took the throne of this
Maya city in modern-day Chiapas.
ANSWER: Palenque ("pah-LANE-kay")
<Bentley, History - World>
NSC 2019 - Round 03 - Page 8 of 13
7. This philosopher argued that "passion often turns the brightest man into a fool" in some Commentaries on the
Maxims of La Rochefoucauld. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this philosopher whose maxims are collected in The Heroic Sentiments. One of her goals was to turn
the town she ruled into an "Athens of the North."
ANSWER: Queen Kristina Vasa [accept Queen Christina]
[10] In one of her Sentiments, Kristina argued that this thing has no "gender" or "sex." Kristina was the
dedicatee of a treatise about the "passions of" this thing, in which a thinker placed it in the pineal gland.
ANSWER: the soul
[10] Passions of the Soul is a work by this author, who maintained a philosophical correspondence with
Kristina. He proclaimed "I think therefore I am" in Discourse on Method.
ANSWER: Rene Descartes [accept Renatus Cartesius]
<Jose, RMP - Philosophy>
8. In a short story, a woman named La Folle cannot go "beyond" this kind of place due to a traumatic incident in
which P’tit Maitre was wounded during the Civil War. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this kind of place whose "folk" titles the debut 1894 collection of a certain author. That collection
includes a story in which a woman flees into one of these places after Armand suspects that she is part-black.
ANSWER: bayou [accept "Beyond the Bayou" or Bayou Folk]
[10] Bayou Folk is by this author and includes the aforementioned story "Desiree's Baby."
ANSWER: Kate Chopin [or Katherine O'Flaherty]
[10] Kate Chopin's other works of local color includes this novella, in which Edna Pontellier's burgeoning
sexuality is explored through her affairs with Robert Lebrun and Alcée Arobin ("all-SAY ah-roh-BAN").
ANSWER: The Awakening
<Jose, Literature - American>
9. This quantity over the gas constant is the slope of a van't Hoff-style plot whose y-axis is the log of the rate
constant, not the equilibrium constant. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity, the energy required to bring reactants to the transition state and initiate a reaction.
ANSWER: activation energy
[10] In reality, for exothermic reactions, the reaction rate increases super-exponentially due to this dangerous
effect, in which the released heat increases temperature in a positive feedback loop.
ANSWER: runaway reaction [accept thermal runaway]
[10] One reason for thermal runaway is that the rate of this process also increases exponentially with
temperature. This process caps how fast catalytically perfect reactions can occur.
ANSWER: diffusion [prompt on mass transport]
<Silverman, Science - Chemistry>
10. Identify the following about the "Fourth Estate," for 10 points each.
[10] The Fourth Estate usually refers to this institution comprised of newspapers, magazines and other written
sources. The First Amendment guarantees "Congress shall make no law … abridging the freedom of speech, or
of" this institution.
ANSWER: the press [or freedom of the press; prompt on the news media]
[10] In On Heroes and Hero-Worship, this author attributes the phrase "the Fourth Estate" to Edmund Burke.
Another of his books, Sartor Resartus, follows a “philosopher of clothing” named Diogenes.
ANSWER: Thomas Carlyle
[10] James Graham's 2017 play Ink chronicles this man's purchase of The Sun tabloid in the 1960s. His children
Elisabeth, James, and Lachlan all runs parts of his media empire.
ANSWER: Rupert Murdoch [or Keith Rupert Murdoch]
<Jose, Other - Other Academic and General Knowledge>
NSC 2019 - Round 03 - Page 9 of 13
11. Positive and negative clonal selection steps occur during this process. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the term commonly used for this process by which thymocytes begin to differentiate and express a T
cell receptor, CD4, or CD8 on their surfaces. This same word is used to describe a process in which B cells
produce stronger antibodies in response to an infection.
ANSWER: T cell maturation [or affinity maturation]
[10] T cells are named for the fact that they mature in this organ, a small bilobed structure in the upper chest.
ANSWER: thymus
[10] Affinity maturation is driven by the ability of B cells to rapidly accelerate the rate of this process by
expressing cytidine deaminase. Alkylating agents typically increase the rate of this process in cells.
ANSWER: rate of mutation [or word forms]
<Silverman, Science - Biology>
12. This woman offers the advice "fill your belly with good things; day and night, night and day, dance and be
merry, feast and rejoice." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this alewife whose advice is ignored by a hero who seeks Utnapishtim (oot-nah-PISH-tim) in a quest
for immortality.
ANSWER: Siduri
[10] Siduri's advice is ignored by this king of Uruk, the namesake of a Mesopotamian epic.
ANSWER: Gilgamesh [accept the Epic of Gilgamesh]
[10] To reach Utnapishtim, Gilgamesh is told by Urshanabi to go one of these places and create 120 poles.
Earlier in the epic, Shamash sends Gilgamesh three dreams while he is on the way to one of these places.
ANSWER: forests [accept cedar forest; accept answers indicating an area with trees]
<Bentley, RMP - World Mythology>
13. This family set up shop on a barge in Lake Malaren after they were barred from building factories in
populated areas. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this family whose member Emil was killed in a September 1864 factory explosion.
ANSWER: Nobel
[10] The Nobels made their fortune manufacturing this product from a combination of kieselguhr and
nitroglycerine. This product shouldn't be confused with TNT.
ANSWER: dynamite [prompt on Nobel's Blasting Powder]
[10] As a young man, Alfred Nobel went to America and worked under John Ericsson, best known for
designing an early one of these things. Gustavus V. Fox helped secure funding for 56 of these things built by the
Union during the Civil War.
ANSWER: ironclad warships [or Monitors; prompt on armored warships; prompt on warships; prompt on
boats]
<Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous>
NSC 2019 - Round 03 - Page 10 of 13
14. One step in this process is the drafting of a positio, which can run for thousands of pages. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this process overseen by officials with titles such as Promotor Fidei. An ad-hoc form of this process
is described by the adjective Equipollent.
ANSWER: canonization [or making someone a Catholic saint; or making someone a candidate for
canonization; accept Equipollent canonization; prompt on beatification]
[10] The canonization process requires the verification of two of these extraordinary events. A saint may have
performed two of the quoad modum type of these actions wherein individuals are healed from long-term
illnesses.
ANSWER: miracles
[10] People in between Servant of God and Blessed during the canonization process are described by this
adjective, also used to describe a Benedictine monk who wrote a history of the English church in the 8th
century.
ANSWER: Venerable [or Venerabilis; accept Venerable Bede or Bede the Venerable]
<Augelli, RMP - Judeo-Christian, Bible>
15. The author of the novel Save Me the Waltz, who was an iconic example of these people, declared that an
ideal one of them should have a talent for "dramatizing herself." For 10 points each:
[10] Name these people who partly title a collection that includes "The Ice Palace." Another story from that
collection, "The Offshore Pirate," centers on one of these people named Ardita.
ANSWER: flappers [accept Flappers and Philosophers; prompt on women or girls]
[10] This title character of another story from Flappers and Philosophers is an archetypal flapper who gets a
provocative haircut and shears off her cousin Marjorie's braids.
ANSWER: Bernice [accept "Bernice Bobs Her Hair"]
[10] This author of Flappers and Philosophers, himself the husband of a flapper named Zelda, also wrote The
Great Gatsby.
ANSWER: F. Scott Fitzgerald [accept Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald]
<Alston, Literature - American>
16. The so-called "Paganini" of this instrument in the 19th century was Giovanni Bottesini ("joh-VAH-nee
bot-teh-SEE-nee"). For 10 points each:
[10] Name this instrument played by bluegrass musician Edgar Meyer and Israeli folk jazz musician Avishai
Cohen. Unlike other members of its family, it is usually tuned in fourths.
ANSWER: double bass [accept upright bass; do not accept or prompt on "bass guitar"]
[10] Bassist Adrian Beers often collaborated with this composer, who included a slowly accelerating variation
for solo basses in a set of variations on the "Rondeau" from Henry Purcell's ("PUR-sulls") Abdelazer.
ANSWER: Benjamin Britten [accept Edward Benjamin Britten, Baron Britten] (The piece is The Young
Person's Guide to the Orchestra.)
[10] The "Romance" from this composer's Lieutenant Kijé ("kih-ZHAY")suite contains a difficult double bass
solo. Peter is represented by the double bass and other strings in this composer's Peter and the Wolf.
ANSWER: Sergei Prokofiev [accept Sergei Sergeyevich Prokofiev]
<Alston, Fine Arts - Music>
NSC 2019 - Round 03 - Page 11 of 13
17. In April 2019, the New York Times reported that Candida auris, a highly drug-resistant and nearly
ineradicable organism in this kingdom, had invaded several Chicago-area hospitals. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this eukaryotic kingdom whose pathogens include the causative agents of thrush and Aspergillus
infections.
ANSWER: Fungi [or fungus; or word forms]
[10] Candida auris is so new, that this process has yet to be completely done to it, making targeted therapies
difficult. This process involves finalizing a draft genome sequence by recombining the fragments read out
during NGS.
ANSWER: genome assembly
[10] What we do know is that C. auris is in this fungal phylum, which contains sac-like fungi. S. cerevisiae is in
this most common fungal phylum.
ANSWER: Ascomycota [accept ascomycetes]
<Silverman, Science - Biology>
18. Identify the following about Bancroft-winning historian Edmund Sears Morgan, for 10 points each.
[10] In Morgan's book titled for the crisis following the passage of this legislation, Morgan profiles Daniel
Dulany, author of the most widely-read pamphlet criticizing this act. A Declaration of Rights and Grievances
drafted in response to this legislation attacked the use of Admiralty Courts.
ANSWER: Stamp Act of 1765 [accept Duties in American Colonies Act 1765]
[10] Morgan's book The Puritan Dilemma is subtitled for "the story of" this man, who coined the term "a city
upon a hill" in his sermon "A Model of Christian Charity".
ANSWER: John Winthrop
[10] John Winthrop was one of the founders of this colony, which was centered around Salem and Boston in its
namesake state.
ANSWER: Massachusetts Bay Colony
<Rosenberg, History - American>
19. Infrared studies revealed that the artist of this painting used the palm of his hand to modify the still-wet
paint. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Renaissance painting that sold at auction for $450 million in 2017. It's a mystery as to why this
painting hasn't gone onto display at the Louvre Abu Dhabi.
ANSWER: Salvator Mundi
[10] Salvator Mundi was likely produced by the workshop of this Renaissance master of The Virgin of the
Rocks and The Last Supper.
ANSWER: Leonardo da Vinci [accept Leonardo da Vinci or Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci]
[10] In Salvator Mundi, Christ crosses his fingers in his raised right hand, while his lowered left hand holds one
of these objects.
ANSWER: orb [accept rock crystal orb or glass orb; accept answers that denote a glass or crystal sphere or
spherical object or ball; accept globus but do not accept or prompt on "globe" or "globus cruciger"]
<Bentley, Fine Arts - Painting>
NSC 2019 - Round 03 - Page 12 of 13
20. On the penalty of death, this character tasks his court astrologer to find a man who has never shaved or worn
boots. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this seven-headed character who is defeated after the young girl Marie gives another character a
sword. After this character's death, Marie observes the seven crowns that this character used to wear.
ANSWER: The Mouse King [accept Mausekönig]
[10] The Mouse King is the antagonist of this author's novella "The Nutcracker and the Mouse King." This
German Romantic also wrote "The Sandman."
ANSWER: E. T. A. Hoffmann [accept Ernst Theodor Amadeus Hoffmann or Ernst Theodor Wilhelm
Hoffmann]
[10] One of E.T.A. Hoffmann's two novels is narrated by this kind of animal. The French author "Mother
Goose" popularized a story about a conniving one of these animals who wears a pair of boots.
ANSWER: cat [accept Puss in Boots]
<Jose, Literature - European>