(1) This quantity can be measured with a Galilean device that relies on changes in liquid density. The surface
form of this quantity is measured with a pyrometer. The first reliable tool for measuring this quantity was a
sealed glass tube of (*) mercury. Absolute scales for this quantity include Rankine and Kelvin, and its standard
scale is based on the freezing and boiling points of water. For ten points, name this quantity recorded in degrees
Celsius.
ANSWER: temperature
(2) In this poem, a group of men open a bag they think contains treasure, but which actually contains wind
that blows their ship far off course. Six men in this poem die when their ship passes between (*) Scylla
and Charybdis. The hero of this poem tricks the cyclops Polyphemus and kills a band of suitors with his son,
Telemachus, to reunite with his wife, Penelope. For ten points, name this ancient epic poem by Homer in which the
title Greek hero returns home to Ithaca.
ANSWER: The Odyssey (accept Odysseia)
(3) In 1934, the controversial construction of the Parker Dam on this river required the National Guard
to muster the Arizona Navy. The Glen Canyon Dam on this river forms Lake Powell, the second largest
man-made reservoir in the US; the largest reservoir, Lake (*) Mead, is also on this river, behind the Hoover
Dam. For ten points, name this river of the American West that flows through the Grand Canyon and starts in the
Rocky Mountains of its namesake state.
ANSWER: Colorado River
(4) Forty subjects for this activity are described in the Visuddhimagga [vee-soo-dee-mah-gah]. A religious
figure often depicted performing this action in padma-sana, named Gautama, achieved enlightenment by
performing this action under the (*) Bodhi tree. Some modern forms of this practice use mantras, repeated
patterns of speech or thought, to promote sati, or “mindfulness.” For ten points, name this common practice in
Buddhism and Hinduism, the act of engaging in deep reflection.
ANSWER: meditation (accept word forms like meditating; prompt on “yoga”)
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 1
Page 2 of 12
(5) This woman was convicted in a “directed” verdict, because Justice Ward Hunt prepared his opinion
before the trial began and told the jury to declare her guilty. In post-trial remarks, this woman argued that
she had the “right to a voice in this government” and threatened that she would never (*) pay a one hundred
dollar fine that was levied in June 1873. For ten points, name this American suffragist who was convicted of illegally
voting, and who is honored on a one-dollar coin.
ANSWER: Susan B. Anthony
(6) This character stars in a 2010 game in which he must repair a world created by Yen Sid with a magic
paintbrush. In Kingdom Hearts II, this character repeatedly shakes Sora’s hand after meeting him in a
world based on the 1928 film (*) Steamboat Willie. Hundreds of silhouettes of this character’s head can be found
scattered around a massive amusement park near Orlando, Florida. For ten points, name this rodent mascot created
by Walt Disney.
ANSWER: Mickey Mouse (accept King Mickey; do not accept “Steamboat Willie”)
(7) This author invented the secret language Khuzdul. This man’s translation of the Red Book of Westmarch
changes the names Kalimac and Banazˆır into Meriadoc and Samwise. In one of this author’s novels, the
Rohirrim inhabit a land given to their ancestors by a Steward of (*) Gondor, and join in a battle against
thousands of orcs. In another novel by this man, Bilbo Baggins is sent on a journey with thirteen dwarves by the
wizard Gandalf. For ten points, name this linguist and author of The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings.
ANSWER: J.R.R. Tolkein (accept John Ronald Reuel Tolkein)
(8) This composer was inspired by an 1880 trip to Rome to write his Italian Capriccio. This composer wrote
six symphonies and died just days after the premiere of his final one, the Pathetique ´ . Another piece by this
composer uses melodies from “La Marseillaise” [mar-sah-YEZ] and “God Save the (*) Tsar” to depict a failed
invasion, and was premiered outdoors to include an unusual instrument. For ten points, name this Russian composer
who used church bells and cannons in his 1812 Overture.
ANSWER: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
(9) In July 1994, scientists studying this object found carbon disulfide in its atmosphere and made the first
observance of an extraterrestrial collision when fragments of the Shoemaker-Levy 9 comet crashed into this
(*) planet. This planet’s gravitational pull creates the Kirkwood gaps, which are noticeably empty regions within
the nearby asteroid belt. The Great Red Spot is found on, for ten points, what gas giant, the largest planet in our
solar system?
ANSWER: Jupiter
(10) A religious group in this country was targeted by the dragonnades policy of forced troop quartering.
The War of the Three Henrys contested the throne of this country, where Catherine de’ Medici incited the
1572 St Bartholomew’s Day Massacre. The Edict of (*) Nantes [nahnt] gave religious protection to this country’s
Protestant Huguenots. For ten points, name this country where Henry IV justified converting to Catholicism by
saying, “Paris is worth a mass.”
ANSWER: Kingdom of France
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 1
Page 3 of 12
(11) Old World primates and guinea pigs have lost the ability to synthesize this compound. Foods rich in
this substance are called antiscorbutics [anti-skor-byoo-tiks]. Nobel laureate Linus Pauling advocated taking
mega-doses of this compound to (*) prevent the common cold. This compound is needed by the body to build
collagen, so its deficiency will result in scurvy. For ten points, name this vitamin concentrated in citrus fruits like
limes and oranges.
ANSWER: vitamin C (accept ascorbic acid; accept C alone after “vitamin” is read)
(12) A copy of this work by Giampietrino was used to restore this painting in the Santa Maria dele Grazie.
Three windows in this work’s background align with a real-life doorway that cuts off the (*) feet of this
painting’s central figure. A man in this work knocks over a salt cellar and clutches a bag of silver while the men
around him argue about the revelation that their leader will be betrayed. For ten points, name this painting by
Leonardo da Vinci that shows Jesus’s final meal with his disciples.
ANSWER: The Last Supper (accept Il Cenacolo; accept L’Ultima Cena)
(13) In the Collatz conjecture, this type of number is tripled, then has one added to it. Polynomials with
this type of degree always have a real root and extend from negative infinity to positive infinity on the y-axis.
Adding two of these numbers together always gives you a number (*) without this property. All prime numbers
except two are, for ten points, what type of number that has reminder 1 when divided by two and is thus contrasted
with even?
ANSWER: odd numbers
(14) The Blue and Green demes [deems] were fans of this sport who clashed in the Nika Riots, which began
in the Hippodrome of Constantinople. Gaius Appuleius Diocles [gah-yuss ah-poo-lee-us dye-oh-kleez] became
the wealthiest athlete in history by operating a (*) quadriga in this sport. Ancient Olympic prizes for this sport
were given to the owner, not the driver. Rome’s Circus Maximus held competitions of, for ten points, what sporting
event involving horse-drawn vehicles?
ANSWER: chariot racing (accept word forms like chariot races; prompt on partial answers like “chariot riding”)
(15) An early version of this story concerns the Greek slave girl Rhodopis. A wish-granting bird lives in
a hazel tree planted on the grave of the title girl’s mother in the Grimm Brothers version of this story, in
which (*) Aschenputtel’s sisters cut off their toes to trick a prince. Charles Perrault may have mistranslated a word
meaning “fur” as “glass” when describing a pair of slippers in this story. For ten points, name this fairy tale in which
a servant girl’s fairy godmother helps her go to a ball and marry a prince.
ANSWER: Cinderella (accept Aschenputtel; accept Cendrillon ou la petite pantoufle de verre)
(16) In 2002, this country was the site of the Godhra train burning, which led to deadly religious riots in
Gujarat that may have been promoted by this country’s current Prime Minister. The BJP party holds a
majority in this country’s lower house of Parliament, the (*) Lok Sabha, despite its controversial ties to the
nationalistic Hindutva movement. Narendra Modi leads, for ten points, what country whose Parliament meets in
New Delhi?
ANSWER: Republic of India
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 1
Page 4 of 12
(17) In the Iliad, this figure goes to her mother Dione after being wounded by Diomedes. In some accounts,
this goddess gave Hippomenes [hih-PAH-meh-neez] golden apples to woo Atalanta but then turned the couple
into lions when they failed to thank her. This mother of (*) Phobos and Deimos sparked the Trojan War when
she promised Helen to Paris, and she was captured in a net with Ares by her husband Hephaestus. For ten points,
name this Greek goddess of love and beauty.
ANSWER: Aphrodite (do not accept or prompt on “Venus”)
(18) The speed of this type of phenomenon is described as both the phase velocity and group velocity.
Sinusoidal [sye-nuh-soy-dull] functions can graph this phenomenon, whose standing type has minimal
displacement at its (*) nodes. Compton scattering demonstrates that light behaves like a particle, not just as this
phenomenon. For ten points, name this physical phenomenon that can carry energy without transferring mass, as
seen on the moving surface of the ocean.
ANSWER: waves (accept additional information, such as standing waves)
(19) This poet described how “a Plank in Reason, broke” in the poem “I felt a Funeral, in my Brain,” and
wrote that “’Hope’ is a thing with feathers” in another poem. This poet wrote “I heard a (*) Fly buzz - when
I died” and a poem in which the speaker rides in a carriage with “Immortality” and a being who “kindly stopped for
me.” For ten points, name this Belle of Amherst, a reclusive poet who wrote “Because I could not stop for Death.”
ANSWER: Emily Dickinson (accept Emily Elizabeth Dickinson)
(20) Most of the boundary disputes over this agreement were resolved by the Adams-On´ıs Treaty sixteen
years later. Ambassadors James Monroe and Robert Livingston negotiated this agreement, which involved a
fifteen (*) million dollar payment that was to be used to invade England. After this agreement, Thomas Jefferson
launched the Lewis and Clark Expedition. For ten points, name this agreement that nearly doubled the size of the
United States by buying, among other territory, New Orleans.
ANSWER: Louisiana Purchase (accept descriptive answers relating to France selling Louisiana to the US)
(1) The angst between political parties is not a new development in American politics. For ten points each,
Name this man who argued against the establishment of political parties in his 1796 Farewell Address, which he
wrote as he retired to Mount Vernon after serving two terms as President.
ANSWER: George Washington
This Frenchman attacked the nature of political parties in early nineteenth century America in his landmark treatise
Democracy in America.
ANSWER: Alexis de Tocqueville (accept Alexis Charles-Henri-Maurice Clerel, Viscount de ´ Tocqueville)
Joshua Norton, a resident of this western city, proclaimed himself Emperor of the United States and, in 1869, issued
a decree banning the Democratic and Republican parties. Norton also issued a decree ordering a suspension bridge
be built to connect this city and Oakland, which eventually did happen.
ANSWER: San Francisco
(2) Berthe Morisot [bayr-tuh moh-ree-soh] was one of the “grand dames” of a group that a contemporary art critic
called “five or six lunatics,” who became known as the Impressionists. For ten points each,
The “grand dames” of Impressionism are Morisot, Marie Bracquemond [mah-ree brah-kah-mawnd], and this
American woman who painted The Boating Party.
ANSWER: Mary Cassatt (accept Mary Stevenson Cassatt)
Morisot and Cassatt frequently painted these people. Morisot painted these people with older relatives in On the
Balcony and The Cradle, and Cassatt painted one of these people having a foot washed by a woman in a blue striped
dress.
ANSWER: children (accept toddlers; accept baby or babies; accept specific answers like little girls or little boys;
accept The Child’s Bath)
Though many of the Impressionists preferred to work with large dabs of oil paint, Morisot was a master of this
method of painting, which uses paint or ink in a namesake wet suspension. This painting method is common in
elementary school art classes.
ANSWER: watercolor (accept aquarelle)
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 1
Page 6 of 12
(3) Brownian motion was first described as the motion of this substance in a drop of water. For ten points each,
Name this powdery substance that may be carried by insects or the wind from plant to plant, a vital step in plant
reproduction.
ANSWER: pollen
Pollination begins when pollen produced in this male reproductive organ reaches the stigma. This organ is comprised
of the anther and filament.
ANSWER: stamen
Flowers use these brightly colored, modified leaves to attract pollinators.
ANSWER: petals (prompt on “corolla”)
(4) In this novel, Emily Shelby is unable to stop her husband from selling the title man; later, Marie St Clare
prevents the title man from gaining his freedom by selling him to Simon Legree. For ten points each,
Name this novel that follows the life of the title American slave, who is killed on Simon Legree’s orders. Harriet
Beecher Stowe subtitled this novel Life Among the Lowly.
ANSWER: Uncle Tom’s Cabin, or Life Among the Lowly
Marie St Clare’s sister-in-law, Ophelia, is a northern woman who claims to support this political cause, even though
she reacts negatively to the novel’s black characters. Stowe hoped her novel would inspire her readers to see slaves
as humans and support this cause.
ANSWER: abolitionism (accept word forms like abolitionism or abolishing slavery)
In Uncle Tom’s Cabin, this woman runs away from the Shelby family when she overhears that they plan to sell her
son, Harry, along with Tom. With Harry and her husband, George, this woman escapes to freedom in Canada, where
she reunites with her mother, Cassy.
ANSWER: Eliza Harris
(5) Give the following about math class supplies that predate the graphing calculator, for ten points each.
Classical mathematicians commonly studied geometry problems with just a straight-edge and this drawing device,
which guides a pencil to draw circular arcs.
ANSWER: compass
This device, which is usually produced as a transparent plastic half-circle, measures angles and is commonly used
with the compass in geometry class.
ANSWER: protractor
Engineers may be familiar with the set square, which provides straight-edges at a right angle to each other. Its
interior is a traceable outline that, commonly, gives this acute angle, whose sine is equal to half of the square root of
two.
ANSWER: forty-five (45) degrees (accept equivalents like pi over four radians or one-fourth pi radians or
one-quarter pi radians)
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 1
Page 7 of 12
(6) At Ragnarok, this god will kill and be killed by Garm, the guard dog of Hel. For ten points each, ¨
Name this one-handed Norse god of war.
ANSWER: Tyr
Tyr lost his hand trying to bind this creature, who bit his hand off. At Ragnarok, this enormous wolf will swallow ¨
Odin whole.
ANSWER: Fenrir (accept the Fenris Wolf)
In the Prose Edda, this god of mischief is described as the father of Fenrir, the Midgard Serpent Jormungandr ¨
[YOHR-mun-gon-dur], and Hel herself.
ANSWER: Loki
(7) This empire’s control of Britannia was shaky at best in the first and second centuries CE. For ten points each,
Name this ancient European empire which built Hadrian’s Wall in what is now northern England. Boudica led an
uprising against this empire in 60 CE that forced one of its generals, Gaius Suetonius Paulinus, to abandon an entire
city.
ANSWER: Rome (accept Roman Empire)
Suetonius abandoned this city, the major trade hub of Britannia, in order to regroup his forces. Boudica’s troops
burned this city to the ground, and archaeologists have found burned Roman debris at sites along the Thames [tems]
River here.
ANSWER: London (accept Londonium)
The initial success of Boudica’s uprising almost convinced this emperor to withdraw the Romans from Britannia
entirely. This son of Agrippina and last emperor from the Julio-Claudian dynasty was criticized for supposedly
playing music while Rome burned in 64 CE.
ANSWER: Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus
(8) In the music video for this song, the singer is dressed as an order of french fries and hugs a woman dressed as a
hamburger, symbolically ending a five-year-long feud. For ten points each,
Name this song, the second single off an album that put all eighteen of its tracks on the Billboard Hot 100 when it
debuted in August 2019. This song’s lyrics ask “Like, can you just not step on my gown?”
ANSWER: You Need to Calm Down
This singer of hits like “Delicate” and “Shake It Off” released the album Lover, including “You Need to Calm
Down,” in 2019.
ANSWER: Taylor Swift (accept Taylor Alison Swift)
Swift, wearing the french fries costume, hugs this pop star at the end of the “You Need To Calm Down” video.
Many critics speculated that Swift’s song “Bad Blood” was about this singer.
ANSWER: Katy Perry (accept Katherine “Katy” Hudson)
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 1
Page 8 of 12
(9) This novel’s protagonist takes Sancho Panza with him on a journey to do glorious deeds in the name of his
lady-love. For ten points each,
Name this Spanish novel by Miguel de Cervantes, in which the title man rides out on his tired old horse, Rocinante,
and imagines he is battling giants.
ANSWER: Don Quixote (accept El ingenioso hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha; accept The Ingenious Gentleman
Don Quijote of La Mancha)
When Don Quixote [kee-HOH-tay] is convinced he and Sancho Panza are battling giants, he is really attacking the
sails of these small buildings, used to grind grain into flour.
ANSWER: windmills (prompt on “mill”)
Don Quixote gives this name to Aldonza Lorenzo, the woman he believes is his noble-born love, but who is really a
farm girl who doesn’t know that she is the focus of Quixote’s madness.
ANSWER: Dulcinea del Toboso
(10) These devices contain a cathode and anode immersed in electrolytes and are used to convert chemical energy
into electrical energy. For ten points each,
Name these devices. The 2019 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to three scientists who developed a
rechargeable lithium-based type of this device.
ANSWER: battery (accept electrochemical cells; accept lithium-ion battery; prompt on “cell”)
This Italian physicist created the first battery by stacking alternating zinc and silver disks separated by soaked
cloths. The SI unit of electric potential was named in honor of this man.
ANSWER: Alessandro Volta (accept Alessandro Giuseppe Antonio Anastasio Volta; prompt on “volt”)
The term “battery” was coined by this American inventor who theorized an early battery as a collection of Leyden
jars. This man’s other thought experiments involving electricity include a rather dangerous one involving a key and
a kite.
ANSWER: Benjamin Franklin
(11) This holiday is celebrated over three days, beginning with the sighting of the new moon on the first of
Shawwal. For ten points each,
Name this Islamic holiday that marks the end of a month of fasting with lavish celebrations and feasting.
ANSWER: Eid al-Fitr [EED al-fih-ter] (accept Eid ul-Fitr or Festival of Breaking the Fast; prompt on “Eid;”
prompt on, but do not otherwise reveal, “the end of Ramadan;” do not accept or prompt on “Ramadan” alone; do
not accept “Eid al-Adha”)
Eid Al-Fitr comes immediately after this ninth month of the Islamic calendar, characterized by prayer and fasting
from sunrise until sunset.
ANSWER: Ramadan (accept Ramazan, Ramzan, or Ramadhan)
During Ramadan, Muslims are encouraged to read the entirety of this book, the central religious text of Islam.
ANSWER: Quran
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 1
Page 9 of 12
(12) A key part of this speech called for German troops to leave Belgium and allow it to be its own country. For ten
points each,
Name this 1918 presidential speech that outlined, and is named for, a proposed peace solution for Europe and the
United States after World War I.
ANSWER: Fourteen Points
The Fourteen Points speech was given by this twenty-eighth US president. After this president suffered a stroke in
his second term, his wife Edith took over many of his responsibilities.
ANSWER: Woodrow Wilson (accept Thomas Woodrow Wilson)
The last and most important of Wilson’s Fourteen Points was the creation of this peacekeeping world organization,
which sought to protect all countries. The US never joined this organization, which failed to prevent World War II
and dissolved shortly after.
ANSWER: League of Nations
(13) In this type of philosophical argument, one person asks questions in the hopes of exposing a flaw in the other
person’s argument. For ten points each,
Name this method of philosophical discussion, named for an ancient Greek philosopher who used it with Euthyphro
[yoo-thih-froh] to analyze his definition of piety in one of many dialogues preserved by his student.
ANSWER: Socratic method (accept Socratic dialogue, etc.; accept anything that mentions Socrates)
This student of Socrates wrote Euthyphro, as well as The Republic and numerous other dialogues between Socrates
and other characters. This Athenian thinker founded the Academy, where he taught Aristotle.
ANSWER: Plato (accept Platon)
In a Socratic-style argument, one generally begins by asking about the starting definitions and premises. This
five-letter term, used interchangeably in mathematics with “postulate,” is used for an initial assumption or definition
that is taken to be true.
ANSWER: axioms
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 1
Page 10 of 12
(14) The WC-130 is a Lockheed airplane modified for collecting data from these events. For ten points each,
Name these meteorological events which are “hunted” by WC-130 pilots, who fly in and out of their eyewall while
collecting pressure and wind speed data.
ANSWER: hurricanes (accept typhoon; accept tropical cyclone; accept tropical storm; accept tropical
depression; prompt on “(thunder)storm”)
This US governmental agency, which operates the National Weather Service and National Ocean Service, employs
a team of hurricane hunters to gather data for forecasting. In 2019, officials in this agency were threatened if they
didn’t support Donald Trump’s mistaken claim that Hurricane Dorian would hit Alabama.
ANSWER: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (accept NOAA [“noah”])
Hurricanes are classified on the Saffir-Simpson scale, which uses this classification for the most severe storms. A
hurricane must have sustained winds of at least one hundred fifty-seven miles per hour to reach this status.
ANSWER: Category Five
(15) Svalbard, an archipelago of this country, is one of the northernmost inhabited places in the world. For ten
points each,
Name this European country known for its numerous fjords [f’yords]. Its capital is Oslo.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Norway (accept Norge; accept Kongeriket Noreg)
Norway is a part of this geographic and ethnic region, along with Sweden and Denmark. It shares its name with the
peninsula containing Norway and Sweden.
ANSWER: Scandinavia (accept Scandinavian Peninsula)
Oslo sits on a fjord that empties into the Skaggerak, a strait connecting the Baltic Sea to this sea east of Britain.
ANSWER: North Sea
(16) This bonus takes us to fair Verona. Answer some questions about a Shakespeare play about the conflict
between the houses of Capulet and Montague, for ten points each.
In the play, this young man from the house of Montague falls in love with the thirteen-year-old daughter of the
opposing house of Capulet, Juliet.
ANSWER: Romeo Montague
This man is neither a Capulet nor a Montague, but is Romeo’s friend. This man delivers the Queen Mab speech and
is stabbed by Juliet’s cousin Tybalt in a duel.
ANSWER: Mercutio
Juliet and Romeo are married in secret by this man, who hopes the marriage will reconcile their houses. This man
suggests that Juliet fake her death to avoid marrying Count Paris.
ANSWER: Friar Laurence (prompt on “Friar”)
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 1
Page 11 of 12
(17) This city’s northern entrance was through the blue Ishtar Gate, built during its revival under Nebuchadnezzar.
For ten points each,
Name this ancient city that served as capital for Hammurabi and Nebuchadnezzar in two different empires named
for it.
ANSWER: Babylon
Nebuchadnezzar ordered the creation of this Babylonian structure, the only one of the seven ancient Wonders of the
World whose location and existence hasn’t been completely confirmed. This structure may have featured stacked
terraces of plants and wildlife.
ANSWER: Hanging Gardens of Babylon
Babylon was located along the banks of this river that, along with its companion the Tigris River, was the source of
water for much of Mesopotamia.
ANSWER: Euphrates [yoo-fray-teez] River
(18) An essay about this man’s “Literary Offenses” criticized his novel Deerslayer for a scene in which
Chingachgook finds tracks in a streambed that somehow haven’t been washed away by the stream, and derided his
novel Pathfinder for a scene in which Hawk-eye performs a completely impossible act of marksmanship. For ten
points each,
Name this author who included Deerslayer and Pathfinder in his Leatherstocking Tales, a series of books about
frontiersman Natty Bumppo.
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper
This novel is chronologically the second of the Leatherstocking Tales series. In this novel, Magua kidnaps Cora
Munro and then stabs Uncas in the back, leaving Uncas’s father, Chingachgook, alone.
ANSWER: The Last of the Mohicans
This American author criticized Deerslayer and Pathfinder in the essay “Fenimore Cooper’s Literary Offenses,” and
was himself the author of A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court and The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
ANSWER: Mark Twain (accept Samuel Langhorne Clemens)
(19) This group of elements is the only one that has members in solid, liquid, and gaseous forms at room
temperature. For ten points each,
Name this highly reactive group of elements found just left of the noble gases on the periodic table.
ANSWER: halogens (accept Group 17)
This lightest halogen is the most electronegative element on the Pauling scale. This element is used in toothpaste
and drinking water to prevent cavities.
ANSWER: fluorine (accept F; do not accept or prompt on “fluoride”)
This seventeenth element on the periodic table is commonly used to disinfect swimming pools.
ANSWER: chlorine (accept Cl; do not accept or prompt on “chloride”)
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 1
Page 12 of 12
(20) Metronomes are tools used to set and maintain this concept in music. For ten points each,
Give this term defined as the speed of music. This concept can be measured in beats per minute and is described by
Italian terms such as adagio and presto.
ANSWER: tempo
This Italian word, translated as “cheerful,” describes tempos faster than moderato and slower than presto.
ANSWER: allegro
Music in a faster tempo often substitutes common time with this other time signature, written as a C with a slash
through it.
ANSWER: cut time (accept alla breve; accept two-two time)