The efficiency of refrigerators was once rated in frigories, a unit equivalent to one of these units per hour.
It is not a unit of mass or temperature, but one of these units defines the specific heat of (*) water. There are
4.184 joules in the small version of this unit, and there are nine of their large kind in each gram of fat. For ten points,
name this non-SI unit that is listed on packages to show the energy content of food.
ANSWER: calorie (accept small calorie, large calorie, food calorie, kilocalorie, cal, or kcal)
(2) The coastal resort of Provincetown lies on the tip of this state’s eastern region, and cities like New Bedford
lie on Buzzards Bay in this state’s south. Myles Standish State Forest is found in a coastal region of this state,
which includes the islands of Chappaquiddick, (*) Martha’s Vineyard, and Nantucket. Plymouth Colony was
established in what is now, for ten points, what New England state that borders both Connecticut and Rhode Island?
ANSWER: Massachusetts
(3) This country experienced economic stagnation in the 1990s, nicknamed its “Lost Decade.” The doomsday
cult Aum Shinrikyo [ah-oom sheen-ree-kyoh] carried out a deadly biochemical attack in this country by
releasing sarin gas in its capital’s (*) subway system. This country, which committed war crimes during its
control of Manchukuo, controversially issued textbooks ignoring those crimes and others in China and Korea during
World War II. For ten points, name this country currently led by Shinzo Abe [ah-bay].
ANSWER: Japan (accept Nippon or Nihon)
(4) In a novel by this man, a “little pink sloth-creature” leads Edward Prendick to where the Hyena-swine
is eating a Saint-Bernard-human hybrid. In other novels by this author, Griffin is disappointed when he can
still see the claws of a cat after testing a (*) serum on it, and England is invaded by Martians in tripods with
terrifying heat ray weapons. For ten points, name this English author of early science fiction novels like The Island
of Doctor Moreau, The Invisible Man, and The War of the Worlds.
ANSWER: H.G. Wells (accept Herbert George Wells)
(5) In rational functions, setting the denominator equal to zero and solving for x will produce asymptotes
with this property. In order for a relation to be a function, a line with this property cannot (*) intersect the
graph at any point more than once, according to a test named for these lines. Lines with this property do not have
slope, and are parallel to the y-axis. For ten points, name this geometric property held by the y-axis, which crosses
the horizontal x-axis.
ANSWER: vertical (accept vertical lines; accept vertical line test; accept vertical asymptotes)
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 4
Page 2 of 12
(6) Ve, Vili, and Odin used two of these objects to create Askr and Embla, the first man and woman. ´
Ratatoskr runs up and down one of these objects, exchanging words of abuse between an eagle and (*) ¨
Nidhogg, a dragon who gnaws on the base of one of these objects that connects the Nine Worlds in Norse myth. ¨
Odin learned knowledge of the runes by tying himself to Yggdrasil, one of, for ten points, what kind of large,
branching plant?
ANSWER: trees (accept elms; accept ash tree)
(7) Stories in this collection tell of Nicholas farting in Absolon’s face while they compete for the love of
Alisoun; of a knight who learns what women want by marrying an old witch; and of three young men who
try to kill death. In this work’s frame story, pilgrims stop at the (*) Tabard Inn on the way to the shrine of
Archbishop Thomas Becket in the south of England. The Miller, the Pardoner, and the Wife of Bath tell stories in,
for ten points, what collection by Geoffrey Chaucer?
ANSWER: The Canterbury Tales
(8) Regions within a fluid where this property remains constant are called isopycnic [eye-soh-pick-nick], and
flowing fluids where this property remains constant are called incompressible. The specific gravity is the ratio
of this property for a substance and for water. Water has a value of roughly one (*) gram per cubic centimeter
for this quantity. For ten points, name this physical property, calculated by dividing an object’s mass by its volume.
ANSWER: density (accept fluid density; accept mass density)
(9) Pieces written for this number of musicians include ones named for Count Razumovsky and one
nicknamed “Emperor” that provided the melody for Germany’s national anthem. This number is the scale
degree of the subdominant, and is the number of flats in A flat (*) major. There are this many beats in a measure
in common time. Joseph Haydn is the “father” of a genre that features this many string players. For ten points, give
the number of performers in a string quartet.
ANSWER: four
(10) Catharine Greene, wife of Revolutionary War general Nathanael Greene, funded the invention of a
machine that processed this good. Despite the fact that this good is not edible, the British lamented a “famine”
of it caused by a Union Navy (*) blockade. Boll weevils ruin harvests of this good. Eli Whitney designed a “gin”
to separate the seeds and fibers of, for ten points, what textile cash crop that was overwhelmingly grown by slaves
in the American South?
ANSWER: cotton
(11) Only sixty of these objects have been found in the Bootes ¨ [boh-OH-tees] void. These objects are arranged
according to their shapes in a graph that resembles a tuning fork designed by Edwin Hubble. Supermassive
black (*) holes are thought to exist at the center of some of these objects, which come in lenticular, irregular,
elliptical, and spiral shapes. Andromeda and the Milky Way are, for ten points, what large systems of millions of
stars?
ANSWER: galaxy (accept galaxies)
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 4
Page 3 of 12
(12) One of these systems runs eight hundred miles from Prudhoe Bay to the port town of Valdez, and its
revenue is used in a Permanent Fund that gives an annual dividend to residents of (*) Alaska. After his
inauguration, President Trump put down the Standing Rock protest of one of these systems, Dakota Access, that
threatened sacred land and drinking water. Keystone XL is, for ten points, what type of construction that transports
crude oil over land?
ANSWER: oil pipeline (accept crude oil pipes; prompt on descriptions related to “transporting oil;” prompt on
“pipe” alone)
(13) This novel’s protagonist is anxious about her son, Seryozha [sayr-YOH-zhah], when she witnesses the
death of a railway worker with her brother Stiva [STEE-vah]. In this novel, Kitty becomes ill after the man
she loves begins an affair with the married protagonist, who confesses to her husband after her lover, Count
(*) Vronsky, falls from his horse during a race. For ten points, name this novel by Leo Tolstoy about a title Russian
noblewoman who throws herself under a train.
ANSWER: Anna Karenina
(14) A group of these people defeated Gaius Claudius Glaber after rappelling down Mount Vesuvius on
vines. The annual declaration of war on another group of these people allowed kryptes [crip-tees] to freely
kill them in order to complete the agoge [ah-goh-gay]. (*) Helots were classified as these people in Sparta, and
thousands of these people were crucified along the Appian Way after Spartacus’s revolt failed. The Roman libertini
were formerly, for ten points, what class of un-free people?
ANSWER: slaves (accept additional information, like Roman slaves; accept servus; accept vernae; accept helots
if given between the words “declaration” and “Helots,” but do not accept or prompt it earlier or later)
(15) An attendant on the right side of this painting stands in front of an orange grove, holding a pink cloak
to cover this painting’s title figure. On the left side of this painting, Chloris is held by Zephyrus, the god of (*)
wind, who blows the title figure of this painting to shore. This painting’s central figure stands on a floating seashell
after rising from the sea. For ten points, name this painting depicting the origin of the Roman goddess of beauty,
painted by Sandro Botticelli.
ANSWER: The Birth of Venus (accept La Nascita di Venere)
(16) On a collaboration with Khalid, this artist sings “Oh, I hope some day I’ll make it out of here / Even if
it takes all night or a hundred years.” This artist references the Scarn dance in a soundbite from The Office
in a song on her 2019 album (*) When We All Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go? This artist frequently wears baggy
clothes to avoid criticism about her body. For ten points, name this teenage singer of “Bury a Friend” and “Bad
Guy.”
ANSWER: Billie Eilish [“eye”-lish] (accept Billie Eilish Baird O’Connell)
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 4
Page 4 of 12
(17) A resident of this town vanishes after stopping near Wiley’s Swamp on his way home from a nearby
farm. This town, also called Tarry Town, is the home of a man who claims he was chased by the Galloping
Hessian at a party hosted by Baltus (*) Van Tassel. Brom Bones marries Katrina in this town shortly after the
disappearance of this town’s schoolteacher, Ichabod Crane. For ten points, name this New England town that, in a
short story by Washington Irving, is haunted by the Headless Horseman.
ANSWER: Sleepy Hollow (accept The Legend of Sleepy Hollow; accept Tarry Town until it is read; accept
Greensburgh)
(18) In the fifth century, the Forty Days’ Fast of Saint Martin was established as the lead-up to this holiday.
The identification of this holiday’s subject with Malachi’s Sun of Righteousness helped establish this holiday
on a Roman (*) solstice day in Catholicism. This modern holiday often includes representations of shepherds and
Magi visiting a stable in Bethlehem. For ten points, name this Christian holiday celebrating the birth of Jesus.
ANSWER: Christmas Day (accept Nativity; accept Noel; prompt on “Yule;” prompt on “December 25;” do not
accept “Christmas Eve”)
(19) An early attempt at this event failed on Big Kill Devil Hill. Small artifacts from this event were carried
aboard the Apollo 11 lunar module, and the Smithsonian maintains the restored (*) machine that accomplished
this event. This event, which took place near Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, lasted only twelve seconds and covered
one hundred twenty feet of ground. For ten points, name this 1903 accomplishment by Orville and Wilbur, the
Wright brothers.
ANSWER: Wright brothers’ first flight of a powered, heavier-than-air aircraft (accept descriptions; accept Wright
brothers’ flight before “Wright” is read; prompt on “flight”)
(20) An unusual type of this plant, Pereskia, can produce rose-like flowers. This plant is the habitat for
cochineals [kah-chih-neels], insects that are harvested to produce a deep red dye. These succulent plants have
areoles, small, (*) spiny bumps that defend the plant’s stem. The saguaro [sah-WAHR-oh] is a giant example of
this plant found in Sonora and Arizona. For ten points, name this plant that typically has excellent water storage
abilities to survive in the desert.
ANSWER: cactuses (accept cacti)
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 4
Page 5 of 12
Bonuses
(1) Answer the following about similarly-named works of literature that describe dramatic changes, for ten points
each.
In this work by Franz Kafka, Gregor Samsa wakes up to discover he’s been transformed into an enormous insect-like
creature, causing a great strain on his family.
ANSWER: The Metamorphosis (accept Die Verwandlung)
The similarly-named Metamorphoses [meh-tah-mor-foh-SEEZ] is an ancient poem that chronicles the history of the
world and mythological transformations. It was written by this Roman poet of the Ars Amatoria.
ANSWER: Ovid (accept Publius Ovidius Naso)
Another Latin author, Apuleius, also wrote a novel called Metamorphoses, though the book is more commonly
titled for a “Golden” one of these horse-like animals. In Ovid’s Metamorphoses, King Midas is cursed with the ears
of this animal when he angers Apollo.
ANSWER: donkey (accept The Golden Ass; accept Asinus aureus)
(2) The record for the largest known one of these numbers was broken in December 2018 via a distributed
computing project called GIMPS. For ten points each,
Name this type of number that, unlike composite numbers, cannot be evenly divided by any positive integer other
than itself and one.
ANSWER: prime number(s) (accept, but do not otherwise reveal, Mersenne primes)
The last seventeen times that a new record-high prime number has been found, the prime has been this type of prime
number, which is exactly one less than a power of two.
ANSWER: Mersenne prime
The record for largest-known prime number is always certain to be broken again, because this ancient Greek
mathematician and author of the Elements proved that there are infinitely many prime numbers.
ANSWER: Euclid [yoo-klid] of Alexandria
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 4
Page 6 of 12
(3) This sculptor intended for his statues of a Dying Slave and a Rebellious Slave to be among forty sculptures in
a work commissioned by Pope Julius II [the second] although, due to budget constraints, the finished work only
includes six figures. For ten points each,
Name this Italian Renaissance artist, who sculpted the Horned Moses for Pope Julius, and who painted The Creation
of Adam on the ceiling of a Vatican chapel.
ANSWER: Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni (accept either underlined name)
Michelangelo’s Horned Moses is one of the six sculptures that adorn this structure, which was eventually constructed
after the death of Pope Julius.
ANSWER: tomb of Pope Julius II (accept equivalent terms such as vault of Pope Julius II; prompt on more general
answers like “memorial” or “final resting place” of Pope Julius II; do not accept “grave”)
During a dispute with Pope Julius, during which work on the tomb was suspended, Michelangelo was commissioned
to paint The Creation of Adam and other scenes from Genesis on the ceiling of this chapel in the Vatican.
ANSWER: Sistine Chapel
(4) This politician served as Woodrow Wilson’s Secretary of State, but resigned after the sinking of the Lusitania.
For ten points each,
Name this Populist American politician. While running for President, he argued for free silver and bimetallism in
the American economy with his “Cross of Gold” speech.
ANSWER: William Jennings Bryan
Bryan ran on this party’s ticket in 1896, gaining Populist votes. This party was founded by Andrew Jackson and
opposes the Republican Party.
ANSWER: Democratic Party
This president defeated William Jennings Bryan in the 1896 election. This president won the Spanish-American
War and annexed Hawaii, but was assassinated by Leon Czolgosz [chol-gosh] in 1901.
ANSWER: William McKinley Jr.
(5) These animals are the natural predators of balloons in the Bloons franchise. For ten points each,
Name this type of animal. In a Sega franchise, one of these animals named Aiai [eye-eye] rolls around in a ball
collecting bananas.
ANSWER: monkey (accept Super Monkey Ball; do not accept or prompt on “ape”)
This sidekick to Donkey Kong is based on the original design for Donkey Jr. and wears a red hat and shirt. He
starred in his own racing game for the Nintendo 64 and has been a playable fighter in the last three Smash games.
ANSWER: Diddy Kong (accept Diddy Kong Racing)
This MOBA game by Riot includes Wukong, The Monkey King as one of dozens of champions who fight in the
three lanes and jungle of Summoner’s Rift.
ANSWER: League of Legends (accept LoL)
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 4
Page 7 of 12
(6) These events are defined as a large drop in biodiversity in a short amount of time. For ten points each,
Name this type of event in which large numbers of species are wiped out. These events define the boundaries
between the Permian and Triassic periods and between the Cretaceous and Paleogene periods.
ANSWER: mass extinction events
The extinction event that ended the Cretaceous period is believed to have been caused by this type of event at a site
on what is now the Yucatan Peninsula.
ANSWER: cosmic impact (accept answers describing an asteroid impact and/or meteorite impact and/or comet
impact; accept equivalents, like “an asteroid and/or meteorite and/or comet hitting the Earth;” prompt on partial
answers like “asteroid” or “meteor(ite)” or “comet” alone; do not accept any answer including “meteoroid”)
Mankind is causing Earth to undergo its sixth mass extinction event, which is named for this current epoch. You can
give either the official term for the epoch that began roughly twelve thousand years ago or the proposed name for
the more recent timeframe in which humanity’s effects became more pronounced.
ANSWER: Holocene and/or Anthropocene
(7) Pierre Simon de Laplace [la-plahss] and Joseph Louis Lagrange [la-gronj] taught in this country during its
late-eighteenth century revolution. For ten points each,
Name this country whose other prominent scientists included Antoine Lavoisier, who was guillotined in 1794 during
Maximilien Robespierre’s Reign of Terror in this country.
ANSWER: France (accept Kingdom of France or French Republic)
This number system was briefly used for timekeeping and the calendar during the French Revolution, but it didn’t
catch on. The use of this number system was significantly more successful in the metric system.
ANSWER: decimal system (accept base ten; accept any descriptive answer relating to the number ten)
One of the first French thinkers to propose “decimal time” was Jean le Rond d’Alembert [zhon leh ron dal-um-bayr],
who co-edited this intellectual project with Denis Diderot. This Enlightenment-era work was a monumental attempt
to collect all human knowledge.
ANSWER: Encyclopedie ´ (accept Encyclopedia)
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 4
Page 8 of 12
(8) An obsessed author wrote a short story in which this event happens to a congressman’s wife, a German soldier,
Victorine Lafourcade, and Edward Stapleton before the narrator prepares a bell and a series of complex levers to
prevent it from happening to him. For ten points each,
Name this rare event, the obsession of an American horror author who also wrote a story in which Madeline
experiences this event before returning to kill her brother, Roderick.
ANSWER: being interred alive (accept entombed alive, buried alive, or any answer that describes a person
being placed in a casket, coffin, tomb, vault, or grave while they appear to be dead but are still alive; accept The
Premature Burial; accept being vivisected or autopsied before death, since this happens to a character in “The
Premature Burial;” prompt on partial answers that describe a person seeming dead or being entombed; do not accept
answers describing being bricked into a wall as a means of murder)
This author played on his own obsession with being buried alive in his stories “The Premature Burial” and “The
Cask of Amontillado.”
ANSWER: Edgar Allan Poe
In this Edgar Allan Poe short story, Madeline is entombed alive in the title family’s vault, but returns and shocks
Roderick to death while their ancestral home crumbles around them.
ANSWER: The Fall of the House of Usher
(9) The seventeenth-century doctor Jean Baptist van Helmont used this “theory” to “create” mice by placing a dirty
shirt in a jar of wheat for twenty-one days. For ten points each,
Name this now discredited theory which held that snakes, oysters, and other creatures were formed from water,
mud, and other non-living parts of the environment.
ANSWER: spontaneous generation (accept abiogenesis)
Francesco Redi helped disprove spontaneous generation by showing that these creatures, the larvae of flies, only
appeared on rotting meat after adult flies landed on it.
ANSWER: maggots
Many scientists still believed microbes were spontaneously generated until this man, the creator of the rabies and
anthrax vaccines, performed his swan neck flask experiments.
ANSWER: Louis Pasteur
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 4
Page 9 of 12
(10) In ancient times, Egyptians depicted their people and their pantheon in paintings within the pyramids. Answer
the following about pyramid paintings, for ten points each.
Two answers required. In a common pyramid painting, the goddess Nut [noot] is shown arching over the god Geb.
Geb would be covered in leaves and Nut with stars, showing that they were the gods of these two domains.
ANSWER: the earth and sky (both parts required; accept in either order)
Another common subject of pyramid paintings is this jackal-headed god, who weighs the hearts of the dead against
the feather of Ma’at.
ANSWER: Anubis (accept Anpu or Inpu)
These people, considered to be descendants of Ra, are sometimes depicted wearing the double crown, called the
pschent [p’skent]; other times, these people are shown wearing an ornate blue and gold headcloth called the nemes
[NEH-mehs].
ANSWER: Pharaohs (accept kings of Egypt)
(11) The popularity of the works of this composer of the oratorios Saint John Passion and Saint Matthew Passion
was revived in the nineteenth century by Felix Mendelssohn. For ten points each,
Name this composer of the Goldberg Variations and the Well-Tempered Clavier.
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach
Bach’s Passion oratorios were written in this language, his mother tongue, because he set his music to the Luther
Bible instead of a Latin translation. Johannes Brahms’ Requiem was written in, and named for, this language.
ANSWER: German (accept Deutsch; accept German Requiem; accept Ein Deutsches Requiem)
Bach was a master of this contrapuntal musical form, sometimes demonstrating his mastery with a triple version of
it. An unfinished work of his is titled The Art of this form, which is more complex than a canon or round.
ANSWER: fugue (accept The Art of Fugue; accept Die Kunst der Fuge)
(12) This scientist was the first person to have an element named after him while alive. For ten points each,
Name this Berkeley chemist who discovered ten transuranium elements and is the namesake of element one hundred
six.
ANSWER: Glenn Theodore Seaborg (accept Seaborgium; prompt on “Sg”)
This element discovered by Seaborg has atomic number ninety-six. It is named after a husband and wife pair of
scientists who discovered polonium and radium.
ANSWER: curium (accept Cm; accept Marie and/or Pierre Curie)
Among Seaborg’s discoveries was element one hundred one, which was named in honor of this Russian chemist
who is known as the “father of the periodic table.”
ANSWER: Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev (accept mendelevium; prompt on “Md”)
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 4
Page 10 of 12
(13) Name the following locations based on their public art designed by glass sculptor Dale Chihuly [chih-hoo-lee],
for ten points each.
This city commissioned the Chihuly Garden and Glass near several landmarks built for the 1962 World’s Fair,
including the International Fountain and the Space Needle.
ANSWER: Seattle
Chihuly’s Fiori di Como, a collection of thousands of glass flowers, is suspended from the ceiling in the lobby of
the Bellagio hotel. The Bellagio, like numerous other casino resorts along a namesake “strip,” is technically in the
town of Paradise but commonly referred to as part of this city in Nevada.
ANSWER: Las Vegas
This medical center in Rochester, Minnesota is home to numerous chandelier sculptures by Chihuly, as well as the
nation’s top ranked departments in several medical disciplines.
ANSWER: Mayo Clinic
(14) In a story by this author, the tiger Shere Khan seeks to destroy a boy named Mowgli who was adopted by a
pack of wolves. For ten points each,
Name this English author, who wrote about an Indian water-carrier saving a British soldier’s life in “Gunga Din.”
ANSWER: Rudyard Kipling (accept Joseph Rudyard Kipling)
Mowgli eventually kills and skins Shere Khan in this collection of stories by Kipling that includes the tale of
“Rikki-Tikki-Tavi.”
ANSWER: The Jungle Book
In this poem by Kipling, the narrator declares “you’ll be a Man, my son!” after giving his child advice on how to be
a well-balanced adult.
ANSWER: If-
(15) A nine-story octagonal tower made of this material was located in Nanjing but was destroyed during the
Taiping Rebellion. For ten points each,
Name this ceramic material used in pottery. In the fourteenth century, European traders fell in love with the
blue-and-white decorated style of this material.
ANSWER: porcelain (prompt on “china”)
The Porcelain Tower of Nanjing was constructed during this Chinese dynasty, which exported blue and white
porcelain vases to Europe. This dynasty ruled between the Yuan and Qing [cheeng] dynasties and fell in 1644.
ANSWER: Ming dynasty
Europeans began to obsess over the manufacturing process for porcelain after this Italian explorer returned from
China on the Silk Road with samples of porcelain.
ANSWER: Marco Polo
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 4
Page 11 of 12
(16) This man asked God to spare his nephew’s hometown from destruction if ten righteous people could be found
within it. For ten points each,
Name this biblical patriarch, who interceded on behalf of Lot’s hometown just after receiving a prophecy that he
would become the father of Isaac with his wife, Sarah.
ANSWER: Abraham (accept Abram; accept Ibrahim)
Abraham negotiated for the preservation of this sinful city, which God destroyed along with Gomorrah in a rain of
fire.
ANSWER: Sodom
Because of Abraham’s intercession, Lot was able to escape with his family, but only if they did not look back at the
burning city as they fled. Lot’s wife disobeyed, and was transformed into a pillar of this material.
ANSWER: salt
(17) This man’s success with the Orinoco strain of a certain cash crop single-handedly made his colony profitable.
For ten points each,
Name this businessman and farmer who planted the first successful tobacco crops in Virginia.
ANSWER: John Rolfe
Rolfe married this daughter of Chief Powhatan and brought her to England, where she lived under the Christian
name Rebecca. This woman legendarily saved John Smith’s life as a young girl.
ANSWER: Pocahontas (accept Matoaka)
John Rolfe grew his tobacco in this Virginia colony, the first permanent settlement by the British in the New World.
John Smith led this colony’s early growth, but was injured in summer 1609 and sailed back to England just before
its infamous “Starving Time.”
ANSWER: Jamestown
(18) This author wrote that “a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds” in the essay “Self-Reliance.” For
ten points each,
Name this American Transcendentalist essayist and poet, who wrote works like “Nature,” “The Over-Soul,” and
“The American Scholar.”
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Emerson
In the Transcendentalist essay “Nature,” Emerson describes himself as a “transparent” one of these body parts,
claiming that “I am nothing; I see all.”
ANSWER: transparent eyeball
As a poet, Emerson wrote a “Hymn” named for this Massachusetts town near Lexington. In the poem,
commemorating an early battle of the American Revolution, Emerson describes “embattled farmers” standing on a
bridge near this town, where they “fired the shot heard round the world.”
ANSWER: Concord Hymn
SCOP Novice 10 · Round 4
Page 12 of 12
(19) According to legend, when a student asked his professor who Satyendra Nath Bose was, the professor replied,
“You don’t know who he was? Half the particles in the universe obey him!” For ten points each,
Bose’s namesake bosons are studied in this branch of physics, which studies the mechanics of sub-atomic scales.
ANSWER: quantum mechanics (accept quantum physics)
Bose-Einstein statistics explain why this balloon-filling element, the lightest of the noble gases, behaves like a
superfluid at low temperatures.
ANSWER: helium (accept He)
A recent triumph of Bose quantum mechanics was the 2012 discovery of this “God particle” believed to give all
matter its mass.
ANSWER: Higgs boson
(20) Running hokey campaign ads is, surprisingly, not one of the Constitutional requirements for someone to
become US President. Answer the following about requirements for being president, for ten points each.
The qualifications to become president are listed in Section One of this Constitutional article, which details the
executive branch.
ANSWER: Article Two
Article Two’s eligibility clause tries to protect the office of the President from foreign interference by dictating that
the President must be this type of person. This three-word phrase is not defined by the Constitution, but courts have
held that this status is determined by where someone is born, not by who their parents are.
ANSWER: natural born citizens
Section One states that a natural born citizen must be at least this old, and have lived in the US for fourteen years,
to be eligible to take office as President.
ANSWER: thirty-five years old
